BLONDE	Who are you?
MAX	Bruno's girlfriend.
BLONDE	Oh, yeah?
MAX	Yeah.
BLONDE	But see tonight wives and girlfriends aren't invited.
MAX	No?
BLONDE	No... Cause tonight the girls are here in a more or less professional capacity. All of them work for me, and you don't... Let's go.

MAX	Okay, okay.  I can explain... You ever have to do something you really don't want to?
BLONDE	How I make my living, what's your point?
MAX	This.

BRUNO	Mr. Sonrisa saw you on the cameras.  He wants you to come see him.
MAX	I'm on a break.
BRUNO	Guess again.

BRUNO	No wire.
MAX	Now that that's out of the way... You want the woman, here's how it works.  You pull fifty large out of your mattress or wherever, and I make a call to bring her in.

BRUNO	Or we can work on your face with a pair of pliers for a couple of hours and you tell us where she is.
MAX	Or we could go another way 'cause your boss seems to like my face just the way it is.

BRUNO	Look, that thing about the pliers, I was just doing what the man pays me to do. Ya know?  Comin' off hard.
MAX	Yeah, sure, I understand.

BRUNO	I never woulda done it.  Probably not, anyway.  I mean, I actually think you're pretty cool.
MAX	Yeah?

BRUNO	You're attractive, you're smart.  Stand on your own two feet, know what I mean? And you got a wicked sense of humor. Man, you really zinged the boss a couple times, it was all I could do--
MAX	Sooo...whattya think?  Maybe after I betray the woman who trusts me and you take her and her daughter out and execute them...we could go on a date.  Play a little miniature golf or somethin'.

BRUNO	Man, you got a bad attitude.
MAX	I like to keep it professional, that's all.

BRUNO	Fine.  So call her.  Get her over here.
MAX	Actually, that's not gonna be necessary.
BRUNO	What?
MAX	That's not why we're here.
BRUNO	What the hell are you talkin' about? Call her.

BRUNO	Call the skank now or I start redecorating.
MAX	You haven't figured this out yet, have you?  You walk in here thinking you're gonna cap her then cap me and take the money back to your boss with your tail wagging... But see it's really the other way around.  You think I'm the whack, when actually you're the whack.

MAX	See what you don't know is you're already in the last two minutes of your life.
BRUNO	You're in the last two seconds, you don't cut the crap.

MAX	You can hardly blame him, the way you've been taking care of business...or should I say, not taking care of it.
BRUNO	What're you talkin' about?
MAX	I'm hired to do a piece of work, my mark goes down and stays down.  Your's makes it to the hospital where you then gotta go finish the job.  Only the cops got the whole thing on video tape.
BRUNO	That's a lotta crap.
MAX	Security camera got you coming outta the stairwell, weapon in your hand, going to room one-oh-four and greasing the patient.  It's embarrassing to the professional community, is what it is.
BRUNO	How come I never hearda you before?
MAX	I'm outta Portland.  Sonrisa didn't want local talent.

MAX	This is what your life's worth, Bruno.
BRUNO	But the boss knows I always been loyal.
MAX	He's got exposure.  He sees you starin' at fifteen to life, there's a chance you could roll over, cop a plea, who knows? Man's figured the odds...and he can't take a chance.

MAX	Ass like your, I can see why he's worried you'll punk.
BRUNO	What the hell are you doing?
MAX	Who's Camille?
BRUNO	None of your business.
MAX	This won't hurt.  Triple dose of insulin, you'll go into a coma, couple minutes you'll stop breathing and on a busy night, the coroner will probably mistake it for an O.D.  Plus, it's way classier than blowin' your brains out.

KENDRA	Some of us are trying to sleep.
DARREN	You didn't tell me you lived with her.
KENDRA	You know each other?

DARREN	Nothing happened between me and Tia.
KENDRA	Leave.  Now.
DARREN	Can I say something in my defense?
KENDRA	No.

KENDRA	Move it.
DARREN	Where?

DARREN	How're ya doin', Max.
ORIGINAL CINDY	You mean until you showed up?
DARREN	You're not still pissed?

ORIGINAL CINDY	'Cause you went out the back door and nailed her girlfriend?  Who would take offense to that?
DARREN	Justine was not an unwilling participant.

DARREN	Do you know why I went after Justine?
ORIGINAL CINDY	She was there...
DARREN	Trying to have a relationship with you, Max, is like standing in a fog bank.  You know you're in the middle of something only you have absolutely no idea where you are.
ORIGINAL CINDY	And when the fog lifted, there's Darren with his head under Justine's skirt.
DARREN	Could you give us a moment.

MAX	Why would I be pissed?
DARREN	It was a complicated situation which could have been misconstrued, causing you to maybe take offense.

DARREN	I was crazy about you...am crazy about you.  But you keep everyone at arm's length like there's some great big dark something going on that-- I don't know... It's just that the more I tried to get close to you, the more you pulled away.
MAX	I'm really glad we're having this conversation.  You're right.  I was angry at you.  But talking about it-- The scales have fallen from my eyes and I see now that it was all my fault.  Can you ever forgive me?
DARREN	I see the perimeter defense system is still fully intact... At least I tried.

DARREN	What are you doing here?
MAX	I live here... Guess I don't have to ask what you're doing here.
DARREN	You're roommates?

DARREN	What is it?
MAX	Police drone.

MAX	It's a sweep.  C'mon.
DARREN	What?  Where're we going?

DARREN	Lemme put some clothes on.
MAX	No time.

MAX	Out there.
DARREN	No way.
MAX	Unless you wanna end up in jail, let me and Kendra handle the cops.

DARREN	But I'm afraid of--
MAX	Don't look down.

HERBAL	Nobody there to sign for it, mon.  What's a bruddah s'posed to do, ride around all day with the damn package?
NORMAL	So you just decided to return it to the sender.  Or, in this case, the sender's wife.
HERBAL	Like de prophets say, "Only the unrighteous husband sends expensive gift- wrapped underpants to another woman."

NORMAL	Which is none of your business...or mine.
HERBAL	It concerns only Jah.  But, in this case, I was the instrument of the Most High.
NORMAL	Yeah, well around here, I'm the Most High... From now on, before you do anything, call in for instructions.

NORMAL	What're you lookin' at me for?  I'm not his next of kin.  Anyway, I don't got that kind of cash lyin' around.
HERBAL	Theo rode for this place a long time, man.

INGA	Where'd you clip this?
MAX	I didn't.  It was a present from a guy.
INGA	Must think you're pretty special laying this on you.
MAX	Thought so.  Turned out he wanted me for something else though.
INGA	Same old story.  Not interested.
MAX	Thought I'd let you have first crack... Later.

INGA	What're you looking for?
MAX	A grand.
INGA	Which means I gotta fence it for two. Who's got that kinda scrilla lying around, these being the worst of the times.
MAX	I ain't mad at you...
INGA	I'll give you seventy-five bucks for it.
MAX	Later.

INGA	I shouldn't do this.  But I got a client lookin' to score some fire power.  Maybe you'll keep your eyes open for me.
MAX	I don't get involved with guns.
INGA	I'll make it worth your while.
MAX	It's a rule.

MAX	You're light a deuce.
INGA	Am I?

INGA	So Max, what do you do with all your money?
MAX	I got overhead...

MAX	I made you coffee.  That oughta help you cope with the injustice of the world a little.
KENDRA	Thanks, it's starting to kick in.  I feel almost human.
MAX	Yeah, me too.

MAX	He's a mistake I made about six months before you did.  But don't feel bad. Justine made the same mistake, along with Renee, Jada, Tia, Brooke--
KENDRA	Yech...

KENDRA	What a creep.
MAX	And for all his cattin' around, not much of a stick man either.

KENDRA	What's with you?  Every week this scumbag puts the squeeze on us and every week you roll out the welcome wagon like he's family.
MAX	Just thought maybe he'd like a little coffee with his saliva.
KENDRA	You didn't...
MAX	Every week.

LAUREN	Oh my God!  In here!  IN HERE!
MAX	SHHH!  Don't do that!

MAX	Damn... Are you alright?
LAUREN	They took my daughter.
MAX	I know.
LAUREN	I couldn't get to her.  It all happened so fast.  Logan had her, and I saw him fall...then Peter told me to run.  And then he...and I remember so clearly, thinking it's me they want.  If I run, maybe they'll come after me.  Maybe they won't think about her... So I ran...

MAX	Your daughter's the only leverage they have to keep you quiet.
LAUREN	Can you help me get her back?
MAX	Look, I'd really like to...

LAUREN	If I give myself up in exchange for Sophy, would you make sure she's okay?
MAX	We're not going that route.  Sonrisa's not someone you make deals with.
LAUREN	What else can we do?
MAX	Like I said-- This isn't my regular line of work so I'm making it up as I go.

MAX	Look, we gotta keep the momentum up here, not give her a chance to think.  If she hears her kid's voice...
LAUREN	Hello...
MAX	Hang on, Lauren.  We're conferencing in Sophy.

LAUREN	Goodnight Bears.  Goodnight chairs. Goodnight kittens.  Goodnight mittens. Goodnight clocks.  And goodnight socks. Goodnight little house.  And goodnight--
SOPHY	I don't want to move away.
LAUREN	I know, Honey, but just think how exiting it will be-- new house, new school, new friends--
SOPHY	But why can't we stay here?
LAUREN	Because we can't.  There's nothing here for us anymore.
SOPHY	Are we in some kind of trouble?
LAUREN	No...
SOPHY	Then how come last night I heard you talking to Logan and you were crying?

LAUREN	What makes you cry?
SOPHY	If I'm sad, or tired, or sometimes when I'm angry or when somebody's being mean to me.
LAUREN	Pretty much the same reasons I was crying.  But things will be better when we move to a new place.
SOPHY	Then I'm gonna do what you do to make me feel better when I'm sad.

LAUREN	Sophy?  Are you okay?
SOPHY	Mommy, where are you?
LAUREN	Don't worry, I'm coming to get you.
SOPHY	When?
LAUREN	Soon, baby.
SOPHY	Mommy, I'm scared.
LAUREN	There's nothing to be afraid of. Everything's going to be alright.

LOGAN	You're a thief?
MAX	Girl's gotta make a living.
LOGAN	Thank God.
MAX	First time I ever heard that.
LOGAN	I was expecting someone else.
MAX	Guess it wasn't the pizza delivery guy.
LOGAN	You're lucky.  I almost pulled the trigger.

MAX	I'm sorry if I caught you at a bad time.
LOGAN	We're just a little tense right now...  It's okay.

LOGAN	You have good taste.  French, 1920's, attributed to Chitarus.
MAX	Whoever that is.
LOGAN	So, what, you liked it because it was shiny?
MAX	No, because it's the Egyptian goddess Bast.
LOGAN	Who is...
MAX	The goddess who comprehends all goddesses, eye of Ra, protector, avenger, and destroyer, giver of life, who lives forever... I could keep going.

MAX	So this guy walks into a bar and says...
LOGAN	We didn't get a chance to finish our conversation the other night.

MAX	Original Cindy, say hi to my good friend--
LOGAN	Logan Cale.

MAX	Sorry about your window.
LOGAN	Can we go somewhere and talk?

MAX	Lemme get my coat.
LOGAN	The one you're wearing?

MAX	How'd you find me?
LOGAN	Wasn't that hard.
MAX	Am I s'posed to be flattered by all the attention?
LOGAN	Now you know who I am, where I live.  I figured I better find out who I'm dealing with in case you were looking to hurt me.
MAX	So now you tracked me down.  What d'ya think?
LOGAN	Too early to tell.
MAX	How does Mrs. Eyes Only like being married to a guy on everybody's hit list?
LOGAN	Lauren's not my wife.
MAX	Girlfriend?
LOGAN	One of my sources.  Her husband was murdered by Edgar Sonrisa.
MAX	What's your shot in all this?  Being a famous, anonymous, underground, pirate, cyber-journalist can't be much of a payday.
LOGAN	Fortunately, my needs are met in that department.
MAX	So, what, you just like the sound of your own voice?
LOGAN	Look around at all this...  Built by people who got up every morning and worked hard trying to make a better life.  Then the bomb happened and everyone got scared.  They blinked and before they knew it they'd given away the store to a bunch of thugs who were happy to take it off their hands.  Overnight the government, the police, everything intended to protect the people had been turned against them.
MAX	You miss the good ol' days.  Even though there were still poor people who died from diseases when they didn't have to. And rich people spent obscene amounts of money redecorating their houses to match the cat.  Those good ol' days?
LOGAN	People had a choice, even if they took it for granted.  And now they don't.
MAX	So what are you gonna do about it?
LOGAN	Something.
MAX	Personally, I'm more interested in going fast on my motorcycle or climbing the Trans American building with my pals. Instead of giving myself a headache over stuff I can't do anything about.
LOGAN	You accept the way things are, you're an active participant in making it worse.
MAX	Is the social studies class over for today?
LOGAN	Yeah...

LOGAN	Ever notice how cats always seem to turn up around dinner time?
MAX	I won't be staying.
LOGAN	I'm not a half bad cook.

MAX	Like following me around and pestering the people I work with wasn't bad enough, but breaking into my apartment--
LOGAN	It was open.
MAX	You got a lotta nerve.
LOGAN	Me?  You're the one who tried to rip off this piece.
MAX	Completely different situation.  I steal things in order to sell them.  For money. It's called commerce.  But some stranger sneaking into a girl's bedroom is...bent.
LOGAN	Bent?
MAX	Bent.
LOGAN	You make it sound I pawed through your priceless collection of underwear.
MAX	How do I know you didn't?
LOGAN	So saw my hands off, I left you a present.
MAX	Am I s'posed to be grateful?
LOGAN	That would be appropriate, yes.
MAX	How'm I s'posed to ever sleep there again knowing some pervo's probably touched everything I own?
LOGAN	You're that nervous, you're welcome to stay here.

MAX	Whoa there, Tex!  We've been through all this.
LOGAN	It's alright, Peter, we're fine.
MAX	We are not fine.

LOGAN	Look, if I made you nervous or uncomfortable or creeped you out--
MAX	Yes on all counts.
LOGAN	I'm sorry.  It wasn't my intention.  But I had to see you.
MAX	You'd think a guy who's taken on the job of saving the world would have a few more important things to do than traipse around after some girl.
LOGAN	I haven't been able to get you off my mind.
MAX	You need to get out more.
LOGAN	C'mere, I want to show you something.

MAX	Gold leaf, art nouveau, French, early nineteen hundreds... I could probably fence this for three or four grand.
LOGAN	No, I meant this.

MAX	Expensive gifts, surprise late-night visits, over-the-top flattery... You always come on this strong?
LOGAN	Only when I meet someone I have to know everything about.

LOGAN	Suppose I could help you locate the other ones.
MAX	The other ones?
LOGAN	The other one like you...
MAX	You lost me.
LOGAN	C'mon, Max.  First I watch you dive headfirst out the window fifteen stories up like you're Rocky the flying squirrel. Then, I found this in your apartment.

LOGAN	L-Triptophane...a neurotransmitter sometimes used in homeopathy to control seizures.  Then the lightbulb went off.
MAX	You did go through my stuff.

MAX	I don't know what kind of game you're playing here but I'm out because you are a whack-job.
LOGAN	He was working on something called Project Manticore, which was using recombinant DNA to produce a superior human...a warrior...an advanced infantry soldier.
MAX	Not that I don't enjoy a good urban legend now and then but what does any of this have to do with me?
LOGAN	The bar code on your neck, Max.  I know who you are and I know who you're running from.

MAX	We got separated right away.  I never knew how many made it.
LOGAN	How well do you remember the lab?
MAX	I remember fine.  I just didn't understand what was going on.  They never told us anything except what to do.  It took me a long time afterwards to figure things out.
LOGAN	How much do you know?
MAX	I know they made me.  Even got the label on my neck to prove it.
LOGAN	The technical term for you is "chimera"...
MAX	Yeah...a made-up creature.  Like in mythology...with the head of a lion, the body of a goat and the tail of...
LOGAN	A girl.
MAX	Your basic hodge-podge.
LOGAN	Hardly...

MAX	Christmas is a snap when you got no parents or relatives, just a bunch of gene sequences from probably twenty different people.
LOGAN	Like extra virgin olive oil, the best of the best.
MAX	You said you could help.
LOGAN	I need to find this technician, or anyone else who knows about Project Manticore. They would've used surrogate mothers to carry you after the in-vitro work... If I can track down one of them.
MAX	What's in it for you?
LOGAN	Your help.
MAX	I already don't like the sound of this.
LOGAN	The woman you met, Lauren.  She supervised workers removing cortodiazapine from gel caps by hand and replacing it with powdered sugar.  The real drug was shipped out of the country. The placebos were distributed to County VA Hospital and six veterans' clinics in the area.
MAX	That's low, but this effects me how exactly?
LOGAN	She's prepared to testify that she was instructed to do this by one of Edgar Sonrisa's managers.  You know who Sonrisa is?
MAX	Yeah, I catch your hacks.  He's Satan's lap dog, or something.
LOGAN	So, you know the lengths he'll go to keep her from going public... I'm turning Lauren over to Canadian law enforcement tomorrow.  They'll put her in witness protection, but if you're with her the risk of her safety goes way down.
MAX	I didn't make it this far by attracting a lot of attention.
LOGAN	She's put her life on the line, and her faith in me.
MAX	They want me...bad.  Or at least they don't want me grabbed up by the Chinese or whoever.  Best case, I wind up back in that facility.  More likely, it's a long drive out in the country, if you know what I mean.

MAX	They've lost track of me and I plan to keep it that way.
LOGAN	You're a soldier, Max.  That's what you were put here for.  But soldiers need a mission otherwise they tear themselves up.
MAX	That's deep.  But before you lecture me about the meaning of life maybe you oughta get one...ta ta.

MAX	See you're back and still rocking the boat.
LOGAN	Somebody's got to.

MAX	I would've come sooner, but...I didn't... How're you doin'?
LOGAN	Not in any pain...the good and bad news of a blown out spinal cord.
MAX	I'm sorry.
LOGAN	My mother used to say the universe is right on schedule.  Everything happens like it's supposed to.
MAX	You believe that?
LOGAN	I've never been much for trying to understand why bad things happen, I just know they do.  So the job's to figure out how to deal with the consequences.  Which you did... You took that sonuvabitch out.
MAX	Well, not me personally.
LOGAN	On accounta you, Sonrisa didn't get to buy off the jury, or kill the judge. He's gone.  Once and for all.  It was war, Max, and you won.
MAX	That's what soldiers do, right?

MAX	What's this?
LOGAN	Open it.

LOGAN	It turned up on the black market.  One of my sources thought I might be interested.
MAX	I don't know what to say.
LOGAN	Deeds, not words.  I need your help.

LOGAN	Forty-seven people drowned last night off the coast of Vancouver after paying smugglers twenty thousand apiece to get into Canada so they could get work in order to eat.  Only they got marched overboard at gunpoint instead.
MAX	Look, thank you for this but--

LOGAN	These girls, kidnapped during the last month and sold overseas to the highest bidder.  The oldest is twelve.  The youngest about the same age you were when you escaped.
MAX	And I feel real bad about all that but it doesn't mean I need to get involved.
LOGAN	You are involved.  By being alive you're involved.
MAX	We're quoting Mom again.
LOGAN	Maybe we got screwed outta living in a time when we could sit in a cafe, sipping our lattes wearing two thousand dollar wrist watches while we plan our next vacation.  But the world got a whole lot meaner all of a sudden.  Wasn't s'posed to, but it did.  And it's back to the law of the jungle.  You got your predators and you got your victims.
MAX	And you still think you can do something to change that.
LOGAN	With your help.
MAX	Civilization as we know it is unraveling before our eyes.  But Logan and Max, with a song in their hearts are gonna march into battle to keep that from happening.
LOGAN	And whether you want to believe it or not, you already fired the first shot.  On another matter, Federal Corrections used to keep records on distinguishing marks-- scars, tattoos.  I did a search and came up with this.

LOGAN	That was taken nine years ago... I.D.'d as Michael Hanover.  Sentenced to 18 months in the state penn at Rawlins, Wyoming for armed robbery.  He escaped from custody after 4 days.  Hasn't been seen or heard from since.
MAX	Zack... He made it... He's alive...

LOGAN	I'm looking for a lady who works here.
NORMAL	Ladies would be elsewhere.

LOGAN	Know where I can find her?
NORMAL	You don't want to.
LOGAN	But she does work here?
NORMAL	She may be easy on the eyes but she's trouble, trust me.  Hot run to two-oh-two Sansomme.
LOGAN	I need to talk to her.
NORMAL	Can't help you.

NORMAL	Max something.  I got no clue where she stays.
LOGAN	Any idea when she'll be back?
NORMAL	None.
LOGAN	I'll wait.

MAX	Who is it?
LYDIA	A friend of your fiance's.
MAX	What do you want?
LYDIA	To set the record straight about where he was the other night when he said he was working late.

MAX	Who are you?
LYDIA	My name's Lydia.  And it seems you and I have a lot in common.
MAX	You said you knew where my fiance was the other night.
LYDIA	With me, where he's been after work, three, sometimes four nights a week for the last two months... We have what you might call an intimate relationship.
MAX	How do I know you're telling the truth?
LYDIA	He been sleeping in a T-shirt lately?  That's so you won't see the fingernail marks on his back.  Bet you didn't know your boyfriend finds a little pain exciting.  He didn't either...at first.
MAX	Look, I don't know what you want--
LYDIA	I thought it was important for you to know the facts.
MAX	And so should you.  Sketchy told me I could expect a visit from you.  I know all about how you threatened him.  That if he didn't break it off with me, you'd save him the trouble.
LYDIA	Oh?
MAX	Well, it's over between you and him. We're getting married next month.
LYDIA	How sweet.  Standing by your man, even after what he did.  You're a very understanding person.
MAX	Big part of loving someone's being able to forgive them.
LYDIA	You're also a fool.
MAX	I think you should go now.
LYDIA	Not before we get something straight you prissy little bitch.  I decide when I'm done with your boyfriend.  Not him, and certainly not you.  Unless maybe you want to find out just how sharp these nails really are.

MAX	This is not a place you wanna go.
LYDIA	Let go of my hand.

LYDIA	Help... Lemme go... No, don't let me go... Help...
MAX	Now, here's how it's gonna be, Lydia. You're gonna take your threats and your acrylic nails, and you're gonna go home and figure out your marriage, instead of trying to make other people feel as miserable as you do, understand?
LYDIA	Okay, okay.

MAX	Say the words, "I understand."
LYDIA	I understand.
MAX	And if I ever catch you coming near my man again...

VOGELSANG	I asked you to keep that thing outside.
MAX	You did.
VOGELSANG	You drive away business roarin' in like that.
MAX	Yeah, does kinda break the elegant atmosphere you got goin' on here.
VOGELSANG	You got a punk-ass mouth on you, kid.
MAX	My name's not kid.  It's client.  As in the person who pays for your opulent lifestyle.  Now, you got something for me or not?
VOGELSANG	Right here someplace.

VOGELSANG	I got a hit on the car.  An oh-five Tahoe, blue, with Wyoming tags... AGT349... It wasn't easy 'cause you were off in one of the numbers.
MAX	Sorry, I was seven at the time.

MAX	Who's this guy?  This isn't who we're looking for...her name was Hannah.
VOGELSANG	He got the car in a trade for his old pick-up and some food...no bill of sale or nothing.  It was right after the pulse so all the DMV records were wiped.  So we don't get anything on the seller.  Except I actually managed to find this guy, six hours on the phone... Say thank you.
MAX	Thank you.
VOGELSANG	He says he got it from a woman.  Doesn't remember her name but she fits the description you gave like a glove.

VOGELSANG	Guy says he made the trade in Gillette, Wyoming sometime in the fall of oh-nine.
MAX	Then what?
VOGELSANG	Then what?  That's it.  That's all I got.
MAX	Nothing on Hannah?
VOGELSANG	A nuclear airburst wipes out every record of every kind in every computer east of the Rockies, and you want me to find some woman you met when you were seven, whose last name you don't even know... Maybe if you could give me something more on her...anything you can remember, some detail...

MAX	She was a nurse.  She must've lived near there, somewhere, near the...  ...the clinic.  There must be some registry of nurses or medical technicians or whatever for Wyoming.
VOGELSANG	Only a last name would be nice.  Or the nearest town to this...clinic.

MAX	What about the other kids?  You get anything on them?
VOGELSANG	They don't exactly have a search engine for finding a bunch of kids with bar- codes on their necks, which is something I'm not even going to ask about--
MAX	You were gonna run through the law enforcement databases for a match on identifying marks.
VOGELSANG	Nothing so far from arrests, hospital admissions or coroners.  This kind of search...it's heavy spadework.  I'm gonna need--
MAX	More money... Like I'm shocked to hear you say that.

MAX	As long as you're okay.
VOGELSANG	I'll live... Regarding your case...I'm afraid I've come up with some bad news on your fiance.  Lemme get the file.

VOGELSANG	I don't know what your story is and I don't want to.
MAX	Here's your money.

VOGELSANG	Whoever tossed this place wants you.  And I'm looking to stay outta the line of fire.
MAX	How's this about me?
VOGELSANG	They lifted my wallet to make it look like a robbery.  But there's a bug in my computer keyboard, a tap on the phone and a mike in the light fixture.
MAX	Like you said, maybe somebody's tracking one of your investigations.
VOGELSANG	Hardware's too sophisticated.  It's gotta be the government.  And why do I think they're looking for you?
MAX	You're crazy.
VOGELSANG	I'm you, I take that money and get outta town while you can.

VOGELSANG	Your fiance has four previous wives.  His M.O. is to clean 'em out and take off.  Which is what you oughta do.
MAX	Bastard...

VOGELSANG	I'm sorry I couldn't come up with something more positive.
MAX	You and me both.

MAX	I need a favor... I need you to trace a number for me.
VOGELSANG	Sure you wanna be havin' this conversation over the phone?
MAX	Just do it... Five-seven-five-oh- eight...

MAX	Zero... C'mon, Dan I don't have all day.
VOGELSANG	Got a pencil?
MAX	Just give it to me.  I'll remember.
VOGELSANG	One-seven-four-nine-five Natoma.
MAX	I'm on my way.

MAX	Morning, Sunshine...
ORIGINAL CINDY	Caught some son-of-a-bitch stealing my bike.  Used a car jack to blow out my U lock and bent a bunch of spokes.  So now I gotta get my wheels fixed.
MAX	At least he didn't swing with your ride.
ORIGINAL CINDY	No, but I broke a nail giving him a cranium crack and that just sort of wrecks your day, know what I'm saying?

ORIGINAL CINDY	Now, why can't I find a girlfriend like that?  Brings him lunch everyday, thoughtful, sweet, legs from here to there--
MAX	Straight.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Shame, wastin' a girl like that on a guy, but what're you gonna do?

ORIGINAL CINDY	Craps all over everything and everyone and then wants mommy to forgive him.
MAX	What guys do.  'Nother order.
ORIGINAL CINDY	You're way more philosophical than I could ever be.
MAX	I just don't go in with any expectations.

MAX	That's odd...
ORIGINAL CINDY	What?

MAX	Tell me the truth.  Am I a female fog bank?
ORIGINAL CINDY	You're not seriously buying into Darren's nonsense.
MAX	No.
ORIGINAL CINDY	He was just trying to blame you 'cause he's a slut.
MAX	Yeah.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Hell yeah.  There's not the slightest grain of truth in anything that idiot was saying.  You are a totally down-ass female and a straight-up friend who happens to be a little...
MAX	A little what?
ORIGINAL CINDY	You know what I'm saying.
MAX	If I knew what you were saying, I wouldn't be asking.
ORIGINAL CINDY	How long you and me known each other?
MAX	A long time.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Long enough for you to pretty much read me like a book, right?
MAX	Because you're probably my closest friend in the whole world.
ORIGINAL CINDY	And back at ya.  Only there's a part of you that's... I don't know--
MAX	A fog bank.
ORIGINAL CINDY	More like a mystery... Which isn't bad. It's just kinduv...mysterious...

MAX	Gotta go.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Where?
MAX	It's a secret.

ORIGINAL CINDY	You're actually gonna bail Sketchy out.
MAX	Yeah, 'cause maybe he's learned his lesson.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Unlikely.
MAX	And because he's my friend.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Friends don't help other friends cheat.
MAX	And because I actually kinda feel sorry for guys sometimes.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Please...
MAX	They're prisoners to their genes.
ORIGINAL CINDY	So are dogs.
MAX	They don't have a lot of moving parts.
ORIGINAL CINDY	Only one I can think of.
MAX	Besides, think of the drama I'm sparing Natalie.
ORIGINAL CINDY	I say hang the bastard out to dry, let her see him for the heel he is, then maybe she'll step to the all-girl team and let mama-licious ease her pain.
MAX	But, of course, there's nothing self- serving in that scenario.

MAX	Yeah, I can see to it your winning streak continues.
SONRISA	I'll bet you can.  Sit.

MAX	Not right now.
SONRISA	Not right now?  Okay, when?
MAX	Right after you change your wardrobe, your personality and drop about thirty pounds.
SONRISA	Quite a mouth on a girl so young...  ...but my guess is talking is not what it does best.
MAX	Only way you're ever gonna find out is reincarnation... Fact is, you are gonna pay me, and I am gonna provide you with a service.
SONRISA	I actually know how this works.
MAX	You're gonna pay me fifty thousand dollars...

SONRISA	Who are you?
MAX	What, you gonna put me on your Christmas card list?

MAX	Look, you're a player... I'm bringing you this on a plate, and my fee is just the normal cost of doing business.
SONRISA	Pull the cash.

SONRISA	So, how do you get the woman to come to me?
MAX	I told her it's just business to you, that all you want is a reasonable solution to this.  You give her daughter back, she agrees to leave the country.  I play the guarantor, drive her down to Mexico tonight, and put her on a train to Brazil or wherever.
SONRISA	And she bought that?
MAX	I have sincere eyes.

SONRISA	Make the call.
MAX	She's gonna need to know that her little girl's alright.
SONRISA	She's got my word.
MAX	She's gonna want to hear for herself.

MAX	Can you put that in a bag or something?
SONRISA	You get it when I get her.
MAX	Okay...idea.  Compromise, right?  Bruno here comes with me.  He holds the money until mommy shows up, then we close escrow.  What you do with her after I'm gone doesn't keep me awake nights.

MAX	It's payday, need me to pick up your check?
THEO	You're the best, Maxie.

MAX	Playing hooky again?
THEO	Feel like the dog's dinner.
MAX	Probably a touch of what's going around.
THEO	I know what I got, Max.  They put me back on that drug they're giving the other vets.  Only the guy does those cable hacks says the stuff's no good.

MAX	Don't believe everything you hear on TV.
THEO	What if he's on the level?
MAX	Here's the dealio on Eyes Only.  He's probably some wack rich dude sitting around in a trick-ass apartment, bored stupid.  So he gets off on scarin' the poop outta folks like you-- I gotta go.
THEO	Tell everybody hey.
MAX	You can tell 'em yourself tomorrow.

MAX	Catch you back at the wall.
SKETCHY	Later.

MAX	Quitting time.  Grab a cold one?
SKETCHY	I gotta meet Natalie for dinner.
MAX	Right, the big one-oh.
SKETCHY	But I'll take a rain check...

MAX	Hey, Sketchy--
SKETCHY	We gotta talk.
MAX	What's up?

MAX	You blew off your girlfriend last night, even though it was the big one-oh.  I'd be pissed off too if I was her.
SKETCHY	Not half as pissed as she's gonna be when she finds out why I blew her off... I need your help, Max.

MAX	I don't see how you cheating on Natalie involves me.
SKETCHY	I know what you're thinking.  But the truth is, this other person is not someone I'm in love with.  As a matter of fact, after what she just did, she's not even someone I like much.  So in a technical sense, I'm not sure you could call me and her cheating...officially.
MAX	Do guys actually believe their lame, self- serving excuses?
SKETCHY	Max--
MAX	Or do you think we're just so grateful to have one of you idiots we'll look the other way, which is arrogant and condescending.
SKETCHY	Lame, self-serving, arrogant...guilty as charged.
MAX	You left out condescending.
SKETCHY	But there's another side--
MAX	Here it comes.  The part where the guy turns everything around.
SKETCHY	I'm the victim here.
MAX	Really?
SKETCHY	Hear me out.  This person I've been seeing is a Jam Pony client who happens to be married--
MAX	And you were a sympathetic ear.
SKETCHY	Exactly.
MAX	Then a sympathetic mouth, then a sympathetic--
SKETCHY	She had me followed the other day and found out about Natalie.  Now, this person's demanding I blow her off or she'll do it for me by telling Nat about us.
MAX	Does this person have a name?
SKETCHY	Lydia.
MAX	And Lydia telling Natalie the truth makes you a victim in what way?
SKETCHY	I'm a toy to her.
MAX	A toy?
SKETCHY	She's as much as said so.  But she doesn't want to share her toy with anyone else... It's just an ego thing with her.
MAX	Fight fire with fire.  Threaten to go to her husband.
SKETCHY	Who either doesn't care, or could have me killed.  Either way, Natalie's still gonna find out.
MAX	What happens if you level with her?
SKETCHY	Even if she doesn't dump me, which is unlikely, she'd never be able to trust me again.
MAX	And why should she?
SKETCHY	Look Max, I made a terrible mistake.  One I'll never, ever make again.  Natalie and I are soulmates.  I know that now.  She's the woman I want to spend the rest of my life with.  I guess it took the thought of losing her for me to understand that.

SKETCHY	So you're straight on how this is gonna go down.
MAX	You set up on Lydia.  When she's on her way over to the apartment you give me the heads up.  I answer the door and pretend to be Natalie.
SKETCHY	She tells you how I've been--
MAX	--a philandering pig.
SKETCHY	But you explain that you're a compassionate and understanding person who can find it in your heart to forgive me.
MAX	Or, I dissolve into an angry, hysterical wreck who never wants to see your lying ass again, which is probably what would really happen.
SKETCHY	I just don't want Natalie to ever find out.  She deserves better.
MAX	How'd you get her out of town?
SKETCHY	Convinced her she needed to visit her mom in San Mateo.
MAX	And we're sure Lydia's gonna make her move?
SKETCHY	She came by the apartment once already. Fortunately, I'd disconnected the doorbell as a precaution... Lydia's not gonna back off until she gets her pound of flesh.
MAX	I'll give it my best shot.
SKETCHY	Max, what did I do to deserve a friend like you?
MAX	You don't.

SKETCHY	You rock, Max.  You... Rock...
MAX	Easy Sketchy.
SKETCHY	No, I'm serious.  That psycho got exactly what she deserved... Yes.
MAX	Lydia may not have been one of humanity's finer specimens but--
SKETCHY	She's toxic...monster in bed, but toxic.
MAX	You would be making a mistake to come away from this thinking she's the villain in the piece... You are.
SKETCHY	She was the one--
MAX	None of this would've happened if you had exercised even a smidgen of good judgement or self-restraint, which you didn't.
SKETCHY	True, but--
MAX	You were trying to have it both ways and you were being completely selfish.  And if I ever find out you're going out the back door on Natalie again, you're the one who's gonna be hanging by your ankles three stories up.  Understand?
SKETCHY	Okay, okay, okay--
MAX	Say the words, "I understand."

SKETCHY	That was extreme!  Did you see that one guy--
MAX	Shut-up...

NORMAL	This is a hot run.  Beat it.  You're late.
MAX	I was on call. 
NORMAL	I want you on call here.
MAX	What's the difference if I'm on call here or deployed in the field.
NORMAL	More like deployed in bed asleep.
MAX	I don't sleep... Theo asked me to pick up his check.
NORMAL	And Theo can't pick up his own check because?...
MAX	He's sick.
NORMAL	For a change.
MAX	How 'bout you don't break my sneakers on this.  The guy is seriously not well.

NORMAL	You tell Theo he's not in tomorrow he can start looking for another job.
MAX	I don't know how to break this to you, Normal, we're all looking for another job.

NORMAL	Fourteen-thirteen Market.  Get a signature, then take it to this address... By the way, that guy who was in here sniffing after you yesterday called twice already.
MAX	Tell him I took the day off 'cause I wasn't feeling so hot.

NORMAL	What about this?
MAX	I'm taking the rest of the day off 'cause I'm not feeling so hot.

NORMAL	Hot run to 842 Beulah, corner of Haight... And you can tell your pal Theo he just got his worthless ass fired. Not that he cares but the wife and kid might.
MAX	Theo's dead.

SISSY	I'm a friend of Bonanza Jellybean's.
CHINK	I know who you are.
SISSY	Oh? Well, there's been some trouble on the ranch. I came up here to get out of the way. It's so dark now I doubt if I could find my way back down. If you could help...
CHINK	Save your breath for the climb.

SISSY	But I don't know how to polka.
CHINK	Neither do I... ha ha ho ho hee hee.

SISSY	What was that?
CHINK	Clockworks.
SISSY	Clockworks?

CHINK	The Clockworks is one reason that I am here on Siwash Ridge. I accepted the invitation to be initiated as a shaman by an aged Siwash chief who was the principle outside confederate of the Clock People.
SISSY	Siwash, huh?
CHINK	He was a degenerated warlock who could turn urine into beer, and the honor that he extended me gave me rights of occupancy in this sacred cave on this far-away Siwash Ridge. I came to the Dakota hills to construct a clockworks of my own.

CHINK	But unlike the clockworks of the Clock People, my ticks more accurately echo the ticks of the universe....  ......ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SISSY	The Clock People?

CHINK	During the Second World War I busted out of Tule Lake detention camp; as a Japanese-American, I had been put there and watched over. I found refuge with the Clock People, who discovered me in a snow bank, near dead, I had been climbing across the Sierra Nevada mountains.
SISSY	Then if you are Japanese, then why are you called the Chink?
CHINK	The Clock People mistook me for Chinese. And the name stuck. In the same way that all Indian tribes came to be labeled "Indians" through the ignorance of an Italian sailor with a taste for oranges, it is only fitting that "Indians" misnamed me. The Clock People, however, are not a tribe, rather they are a gathering of Indians from various tribes. They have lived together since 1906.

SISSY	What do you believe in then?
CHINK	Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.

SISSY	Is everything getting worse?
CHINK	Yes, everything is getting worse. But everything is also getting better.
SISSY	The Countess has come to our aid. The Rubber Rose Ranch is officially deeded to all the cowgirls. And I have been asked to oversee the ranch. For $300 a week. And as it turns out, the Countess is not going to be the vegetable the doctors thought he was... here's a picture!

CHINK	I want to go back to the Clock People. I kind of miss those fool redskins and wonder what they're up to. What's happened to Jelly?
SISSY	She had a one way-ticket to Kansas City.
CHINK	You mean she's dead?

SISSY	But that's an old story now...... I can't believe that you would leave the Butte.
CHINK	Easy come, easy go.

SISSY	Well, if the Clock People give you any inside information on the end of the world, drop us a postcard.
CHINK	The world isn't going to end, you dummy; I hope you know that much.  But it is going to change. It's going to change drastically, and probably in your lifetime. The Clock People see calamitous earthquakes as the agent of change, and they may be right, since there are a hundred thousand earthquakes a year and major ones are long overdue. But there are far worse catastrophes coming... unless the human race can bring itself to abandon the goals and values of civilization, in other words, unless it can break the consumption habit -- and we are so conditioned to consuming as a way of life that for most of us life would have no meaning without the yearnings and rewards of progressive consumption. It isn't merely that our bad habits will cause global catastrophes, but that our operative political-economic philosophies have us in such a blind crab grip that they prevent us from preparing for the natural disasters that are not our fault. So the apocalyptic shit is going to hit the fan, all right, but there'll be some of us it'll miss. Little pockets of humanity. Like the Clock People. Like you two honeys, if you decide to accept my offer of a lease on Siwash Cave. There's almost no worldwide calamity -- famine, nuclear accident, plague, weather warfare or reduction of the ozone shield -- that you couldn't survive in that cave.

CHINK	Suppose that you bear five or six children with your characteristics. All in Siwash Cave. In a postcatastrophe world, your offspring would of necessity intermarry, forming in time a tribe. A tribe every member of which had giant thumbs. A tribe of Big Thumbs would relate to the environment in very special ways. It could not use weapons or produce sophisticated tools. It would have to rely on its wits and its senses. It would have to live with animals -- and plants! -- as virtual equals. It's extremely pleasant to me to think about a tribe of physical eccentrics living peacefully with animals and plants, learning their languages, perhaps, and paying them the respect they deserve.
SISSY	How am I going to be the progenitor of a tribe when I'm living on an isolated ridgetop with Delores?
CHINK	That's your problem.

HOWARD	Where do you live, Miss Hankshaw?
SISSY	I'm staying with the Countess.
HOWARD	I know, but where do you reside when you aren't visiting New York?
SISSY	I don't.
HOWARD	You don't?
SISSY	Well, no, I don't reside anywhere in particular. I just keep moving.

HOWARD	A traveler, eh?
SISSY	You might say that, although I don't think of it as traveling.

SISSY	Where are the others?
HOWARD	Oh, Rupert and Carla had a little hassle and went home.

JELLY	Welcome, podner. By God, it's great to have you here. It's an honor. Sorry I took so long getting to you, but we've had a mess of hard work these past few days -- and a heap of planning to do.
SISSY	Er, you seem to know who I am, and maybe even what I am. Thanks for the breakfast.
JELLY	Oh, I know about Sissy Hankshaw, all right. I've done a little hitchhiking myself. Ah shucks, that's like telling Annie Oakley you're a sharpshooter because you once knocked a tomato can off a stump with a fieldstone. I'd heard tales about you from people I'd meet in jail cells and truckstops. I heard about your, uh, your, ah, your wonderful thumbs, and I heard how you were Jack Kerouac's girl friend...

SISSY	No, I'm afraid that part isn't true. Jack was in awe of me and tracked me down. We spent a night talking and hugging in a corn field, but he was hardly my lover. Besides, I always travel alone.
JELLY	Well, that doesn't matter; that part never interested me anyway. The beatnicks were before my time, and I never got anything outta the hippies but bad dope, clichés and the clap. But the example of your life helped me in my struggle to be a cowgirl.

SISSY	Tell me about it.
JELLY	About...
SISSY	About being a cowgirl. What's it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in radium on the side of a pearl.
JELLY	Cowgirls exist as an image. A fairly common image. The idea of cowgirls especially for little girls prevails in our culture. Therefore, it seems to me, the existence of cowgirls should prevail. Otherwise, they're being fooled. In the Rodeo Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City there are just two cowgirls. Two. And both of 'em are trick-riders. Trick-riding is what cowgirls have almost always done in rodeos. Our society sure likes to see its unconventional women do tricks. That's what prostitutes call it, you know: 'tricking.'

SISSY	You're political, then?
JELLY	No, ma'am. No way. There's girls on the Rubber Rose who are political, but I don't share their views. I got no cowgirl ideology to expound. "Politics is for people who have a passion for changing life but lack a passion for living it."

JELLY	Did that last comment sound too profound to be coming outta my mouth? It's not original. It's something I picked up from the Chink.
SISSY	Really? The Chink, huh? I've gathered that you sometimes speak with him. What else have you learned from the Chink?
JELLY	Learned from the Chink? Oh my. Ha ha. That's hard to say. We mostly.... Uh, a lot of his talk is pretty goofy.

JELLY	......Delores zonks out on peyote at least once a week, but so far her Third Vision hasn't happened. Niwetükame, the Mother Goddess has not gotten back in touch with her. Meanwhile she and Debbie are rivaling each other like a couple of crosstown high schools. Tension. Cowgirl tension! What a drag.
SISSY	What is Debbie's position?
JELLY	Debbie says that if women are to take charge again, they must do it in the feminine way; they mustn't resort to aggressive and violent masculine methods. She says it is up to women to show themselves better than men, to love men, set good examples for them and guide them tenderly toward the New Age. She's a real dreamer, that Debbie-dear.
SISSY	You don't agree with Debbie, then?
JELLY	I wouldn't say that. I expect she's right, ultimately. But I'm with Delores when it comes to fighting for what's mine. I can't understand why Delores is so uptight about the Chink; he could probably teach her a thing or two. Ee! That grass tickles, doesn't it? God knows I love women, but nothing can take the place of a man that fits. Still this is cowgirl territory and I'll stand with Delores and fight any bastards who might deny it. I guess I've always been a scrapper. Look. This scar. Only twelve years old and I was felled by a silver bullet.

SISSY	That's Jellybean!
JELLY	FROM MEN, THE WHOOPING CRANE HAS RECEIVED NEITHER LOVE NOR RESPECT. MEN HAVE DRAINED THE CRANE'S MARSHES, STOLEN ITS EGGS, INVADED ITS PRIVACY, POLLUTED ITS FOOD, FOULED ITS AIR, BLOWN IT APART WITH BUCKSHOT.

JELLY	Looks like every time we get together things are in a mess.
SISSY	So be it. It looks serious this time, though. All these guns... are you actually prepared to kill and die for whooping cranes?
JELLY	Hell no, the cranes are wonderful, okay, but I'm not in this for whooping cranes. I'm in it for cowgirls. If we cowgirls give in to authority on this crane issue, then cowgirls become just another compromise. I want a finer fate than that -- for me and for every other cowgirl. Better no cowgirls at all than cowgirls compromised.
SISSY	How did this business get started, anyhow? Why are the birds nesting here?

SISSY	No, I guess not.
JELLY	'Drugged' is a stupid word.
SISSY	But the peyote is obviously affecting their brains. It's made them break a migratory pattern that goes back thousands of years.

JELLY	Every time I tell you that I love you, you flinch. But that's your problem.
SISSY	If I flinch when you say you love me, it's both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts....

JULIAN	Extraordinary!
THE COUNTESS	She's obviously that. Jesus! Which would you rather have, a million dollars or one of Sissy's thumbs full of pennies?
JULIAN	Oh, you! I'm not talking about her hands. They're difficult to ignore, I confess, but I'm speaking of her whole being. Her whole being is extraordinary. The way she talks, for example. She's so articulate.
THE COUNTESS	It's high time you realized, honey babe, that a woman doesn't have to give the best years of her life to Radcliffe or Smith in order to speak the English language.
JULIAN	Countess. I'm really in a dither. She's turned my head.
THE COUNTESS	Ninety degrees to the left, I hope. How does she feel about you?
JULIAN	I think she's disappointed that I'm not more, ah, sort of atavistic. She's got some naive, sentimental notions about Indians. I'm sure she liked me, though; but.... then she left town.
THE COUNTESS	She always leaves town, you dummy. That doesn't mean anything. What about in bed? How does she like it in bed?

JULIAN	How does she like what in bed?
THE COUNTESS	Like what?

THE COUNTESS	What do you think?
JULIAN	Well.... er...
THE COUNTESS	Shit O dear, Julian. Do you mean to tell me you didn't get it on?
JULIAN	Oh, we didn't get it all the way on.
THE COUNTESS	Whose fault was that?
JULIAN	I suppose it was mine. Yes, it definitely was my fault.
THE COUNTESS	What do they do to you boys in those Ivy league schools, anyway? Strap you down and pump the Nature out of you? They can even press the last drop of Nature out of a Mohawk buck. Why, send a shaman or cannibal to Yale for four years and all he'd be fit for would be a desk in the military-industrial complex and a seat in the third row at a Neil Simon comedy. Jesus H.M.S. Christ! If Harvard or Princeton could get hold of the Chink for a couple of semesters they'd turn him into a candidate for the Bow Tie Wing of the Hall of Wimps. Oogie boogie.
JULIAN	If we Ivy Leaguers aren't earthy enough to suit you hillbillies, at least we don't go around indulging in racist terms such as 'Chink.' Next thing I know, you'll be calling me 'chief.'
THE COUNTESS	Chink's the guy's name, for Christ's sake.
JULIAN	What guy?
THE COUNTESS	Aw, he's some old fart holyman who lives in the hills out West. Gives my ranch the creeps and the willies, too. But though he be old and dirty, he's alive, I'll bet, clear down to his toes. They don't have his juice in a jar in New Haven. Well I suppose that I'll have to write Sissy out on the road.

SISSY	I'm cold.
JULIAN	Here. I'll turn down the air conditioner.
SISSY	It's not the air conditioner that's making me cold. Nothing moves in here. Not even your birds.

JULIAN	What are you doing?
SISSY	Getting dressed. I've got to go.
JULIAN	But I don't want you to leave. Please stay. We can go to dinner. I owe you a dinner. And tonight... we can... really make love.
SISSY	I have to go, Julian.
JULIAN	Why? Why do you have to go?
SISSY	My thumbs hurt. I've made a mistake. I've been negligent. I haven't exercised. I have to hitchhike a little bit every day, no matter what. It's like a musician practicing his scales. When I don't practice, my timing gets off, my thumbs get stiff and sore.

SISSY	Going north?
MAN	You bet your raggedy white ass I am.

MAN	Thanks.
SISSY	American Cheese. The king of road food.

MAN	Are you in show business?
SISSY	I was a successful model once.
MAN	For magazines?
SISSY	I was the Yoni Yum feminine-hygiene Dew girl from 1965 to 1970, but got laid off.
MAN	So now you're bummin' around?
SISSY	Yep.
MAN	Hitchhiking?
SISSY	I'm the best.
MAN	You're the best?
SISSY	When I was younger, I hitchhiked one hundred and twenty-seven hours without stopping, without food or sleep, crossed the continent twice in six days, cooled my thumbs in both oceans and caught rides after midnight on unlighted highways.
MAN	Whooee!
SISSY	As I developed, however, I grew more concerned with subtleties and nuances of style. Time in terms of M.P.H. no longer interested me. I began to hitchhike in something akin to geological time: slow, ancient, vast. When I am really moving, stopping car after car after car, moving so freely, so clearly, so delicately that even the sex maniacs and the cops can only blink and let me pass, then I embody the rhythms of the universe. I am in a state of grace.

THE COUNTESS	To my own special Sissy. Cheers! And welcome. So my letter brought ya flying, eh? Where were you? Salt Lake City? La Conner? Well, I may have a little surprise for you. But first, tell me about yourself. It's been six months, hasn't it? In some circles that's half a year. How are you?
SISSY	Tired...
THE COUNTESS	That's the very first time in the eons that I've known you that I've ever heard you complain. And now you're tired, poor darling.
SISSY	A born freak can only go uphill.
THE COUNTESS	Freak, schmeek. Most of us are freaks in one way or another. Try being born a male Russian countess into a white middle class Baptist family in Mississippi and you'll see what I mean.
SISSY	I've always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It's the people who have been deformed by society I feel sorry for. I've been steady moving for eleven years and some months. Maybe I should rest up for a spell, I'm not as young as I used to be.
THE COUNTESS	Shit O goodness, you won't be thirty for another year, and you're more beautiful than ever.
SISSY	Does that mean you might have an assignment for me?

THE COUNTESS	You were the Yoni Yum girl from, let's see,  from nineteen sixty-eight through nineteen seventy. You've always smelled so nice. Like a little sister. The irony has just killed me. You, the Dew Girl, one of the few girls who doesn't need Dew. I loath the stink of females! They are so sweet the way God made them, then they start fooling around with men and soon they're stinking. Like rotten mushrooms, like an excessively chlorinated swimming pool, like a tuna fish's retirement party. They all stink. From the Queen of England to Bonanza Jellybean, they stink.
SISSY	Bonanza Jellybean?
THE COUNTESS	What? Oh yes. Tee-hee. Jellybean.

THE COUNTESS	She's a young thing who works on my ranch. Real name is Sally Jones or something wooden like that. She's cute as a hot fudge taco, and, of course, it takes verve to change one's name so charmingly. But she stinks like a slut just the same.
SISSY	Your ranch?
THE COUNTESS	Oh my dear yes, I bought a little ranch out West, sort of a tribute to the women of America who have cooperated with me in eliminating their odor by using my vaginal products, Dew spray mist and Yoni Yum spray powder. A tax write-off, actually.

THE COUNTESS	Sissy, Sissy, blushing bride, you can desist from wearing paths in those forgotten highways. The Countess has arranged a job for you. And what a job...
SISSY	A job for me?
THE COUNTESS	I am once more about to make advertising history. And only you, the original Yoni Yum/Dew Girl, could possibly assist me.

SISSY	The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday female deodorant sprays may cause such harmful reactions as blisters, burns and rashes. Although the FDA judges that the reported reactions are not sufficient to justify removal of these products from the market, they are sufficient to warrant the proposed mandatory label warnings.
THE COUNTESS	Shit O dear, that's enough to make me asthmatic. The nerve of those twits. What do they know about female odor? Don't interrupt. Here's my concept. My ranch out West? It's a beauty ranch. Oh, it's got a few head of cattle for atmosphere and tax purposes. But it's a beauty ranch, a place where unhappy women -- divorcees and widows, mainly -- can go to lose weight, remove wrinkles, change their hair styles and pretty themselves up for the next disappointment. My ranch is named the Rubber Rose, after the Rubber Rose douche bag, my own invention, and bless its little red bladder, the most popular douche bag in the world. So get this. It's on the migratory flight path of the whooping cranes. The last flock of wild whooping cranes left in existence. Well, these cranes stop off at my little pond -- Siwash Lake, it's called -- twice a year, autumn and spring, and spend a few days each time, resting up, eating, doing whatever whooping cranes do. I've never seen them, understand, but I hear they're magnificent. Very big specimens -- I mean, huge mothers -- and white as snow, to coin a phrase, except for black tips on their wings and tail feathers, and bright red heads. Now, whooping cranes, in case you didn't know it, are noted for their mating dance. It's just the wildest show in nature. It's probably the reason why birdwatching used to be so popular with old maids and deacons. Picture these rare, beautiful, gigantic birds in full dance -- leaping six feet off the mud, arching their backs, flapping their wings, strutting low to the ground. Dears, it's overwhelming. And picture the birds doing their sex dance on TV. Right there on the home screen, creation's most elaborate sex ritual -- yet clean and pure enough to suit the Pope. With lovely Sissy Hankshaw in the foreground. In a white gown, red hood attached, and big feathery sleeves trimmed in black. In a very subdued imitation of the female whooping crane, she dance/walks over to a large nest in which there sits a can of Yoni Yum. And a can of Dew. Off-camera, a string quartet is playing Debussy. A sensuous voice is reading a few poetic lines about courtship and love. Are you starting to get it? Doesn't it make the hair on your neck stand up and applaud? My very goodness gracious! Grandiose, lyrical, erotic and Girl Scout- oriented; you can't top it. I've hired a crew of experts from Walt Disney Studios, the best wildlife cinematographers around. You're my eternal favorite. Princess Grace herself couldn't be better, not even if she had your personality which she doesn't; Anyway, dear, I'm out of photography now and into water colors. Ah how circuitous conversation is! We're back at the beginning. The exact man I've wanted you to meet is my artist the watercolorist.

SISSY	If you don't want me to pose for him, why do you want me to meet him?
THE COUNTESS	Purely personal. I believe you might enjoy one another.
SISSY	But Countess...
THE COUNTESS	Now, now. Don't get exasperated. I realize that you've always avoided all but the most rudimentary involvements with men, and I might add, you've been wise. Heterosexual relationships seem to lead only to marriage. For men, marriage is a matter of efficient logistics: The male gets his food, bed, laundry, TV, pussy, offspring and creature comforts all under one roof, where he doesn't have to dissipate his psychic energy thinking about them too much, then he is free to go out and fight the battles of life, which is what existence is all about. But for a woman marriage is surrender.

THE COUNTESS	But here you are, still a virgin -- you are virginal yet, aren't you?
SISSY	Why, yes, technically. Jack Kerouac and I came awfully close, but he was afraid of me, I think...
THE COUNTESS	Yes, well, what I'm getting at is that there comes a time when it is psychologically impossible for a woman to lose her virginity. She can't wait too long, you know. Now, there's no reason why you must lose yours. I mean, just ponder it a bit, that's all.
SISSY	What makes you think this watercolorist and I would develop a romantic relationship?
THE COUNTESS	I can't be certain that you would. But what have you got to lose?
SISSY	Well, okay. I'll try it. I don't see the point in it, but I'll try it. Just for you. It's kind of silly, actually, me going out with an artist in New York City. However...
THE COUNTESS	Good, good, good... you'll enjoy it, you'll see. Julian is a gentleman.

THE COUNTESS	Sissy, don't play dumb with me! You're a good model but a shitty actress. The cowgirls are involved in this whooping crane disappearance. You know perfectly well they are. Last seen in Nebraska. Didn't make it to Canada. Siwash Lake is between Nebraska and Canada. The cowgirls have possession of Siwash Lake. And who else but Jellybean's wild cunts could possibly conceive of doing something so diabolical as to tamper with the last flock of some nearly extinct birds? How much do you know about it? Have they murdered those cranes the way they murdered my moo cows?
SISSY	I don't know anything about it.
THE COUNTESS	Sissy. You're trying to protect those scuzzy bitches. Well, let your conscience be your guide, as my mommy used to say, but it won't work. Those stinking sluts are going to suffer...

BLONDELL	B.O.Q., south side.  Take a starboard tack out the door.
JORDAN	Thank you, ensign.
BLONDELL	No problem, lieutenant.

BLONDELL	They take you away to San Clemente Island.  Half the guys quit when they come back.  Supposed to be just hell-and-a-half.
JORDAN	That's what I hear.
BLONDELL	Can I ask you somethin', lieutenant? How come you're doing this?  I mean, we're kinda curious.
JORDAN	Who's "we"?
BLONDELL	Just some of the women.

JORDAN	I don't know if there's any single reason.  But my father was Navy. And he had this old-time recruiting poster in his den.  It showed a girl trying on a sailor's uniform while saying, "Gee, I wish I were a man! I'd join the Navy!"  Was maybe 10 years old when I first saw it, and even then it felt wrong.  Made me mad.  And I don't think a month has gone by that I haven't thought about that poster.  "Gee, I wish I were a man."
BLONDELL	I've been accused of that wish.
JORDAN	The woman I saw you with...
BLONDELL	Just a friend.  We have friends, too, you know.
JORDAN	But are there... I mean, how many...
BLONDELL	More than you'd guess.  It's just that we don't hold coffee klatches. If more then three of us get together at any one time, the guys think it's some kind of uprising.

BLONDELL	Administration, Ensign Blondell.
JORDAN	Don't say my name.
BLONDELL	Who's...  Lieuten --
JORDAN	Or rank.  But can you do me a favor and pull a transfer order?
BLONDELL	Okay, but... You didn't have to do what you did.  Not for me.
JORDAN	Wickwire, Thomas Dane.  See what you can find.

BLONDELL	Got it.
JORDAN	Who signed as his "sponsoring officer"?
BLONDELL	Uh... don't see it.  There's no signature.  But hang on -- there's a note to "See Addendum."  Checking...

BLONDELL	Wow...
JORDAN	What'd you find, Kathy?

DEHAVEN	Commander, are you of the habit of letting photographers traipse around your base snappin' their fill? These were supposed to have been discreet test cases --
C.O.	Senator, they stand out on the public highway with telephoto lenses --
DEHAVEN	-- and now I got reporters from Toadsquat, Iowa, calling my office and askin' what I know about this "G.I. Jane" thing.
C.O.	-- nothing I can do about it unless you're suggesting I infringe on their civil liberties -- which I'd happily do if you'll just trim a little fat off the Constitution.
DEHAVEN	Are you truly mouthin' off to a senior member of the Senate Arms Committee?  I mean, I'll give you points for style -- just nothin' for smarts.

DEHAVEN	Well, seein's how this thing is out, you let me handle the r.p.m.  From this point forward, I want all press matters coordinated via my office. I'll be god-damned if I'm gonna watch Hayes pull flowers out of his ass and take credit for this one. Him or the President.  This my shade?  "Midnight Mahogany"? 'Cuz I'm comin' dangerously close to lookin' like Ronald Reagan here.
C.O.	Your prerogative, Senator.
DEHAVEN	Awright.  How's our girl doin', anyway?
C.O.	Standing right here in my office.
DEHAVEN	Jordan, dear.  How are they treating you?

C.O.	Uh, V.I.P. security arrangements generally take some time, Senator.
DEHAVEN	Security?  What the hell you talkin' about?  Your base isn't secure?
C.O.	Of course, but there's more --
DEHAVEN	Then set out the good plates, we'll all have lunch.  My office will follow up with details.  Jumping off, now...

C.O.	Yes, of course.  Please, have a seat, lieutenant...
JORDAN	Thank you, sir.
C.O.	Would you care for a beverage?  Tea?
JORDAN	I'm fine, sir.
C.O.	So.  We're still coming to terms with the exact protocol for this -- for integrating the Spec-Recon training.  It may not always be smooth, but we're trying to make it as painless as possible for you.
JORDAN	Thank you, sir.  But I expect a certain amount of pain.

JORDAN	Barber was my next stop, sir. Would've had it regulation sooner, only --
C.O.	Don't worry about it.  If it's off your collar and out of your eyes, that's all I'm going to ask.
JORDAN	Really, I have no problem with --
C.O.	I'm not out to change your sex, lieutenant.  You'll have separate beds, separate heads.  If you have specific medical needs, inform the infirmary.  If a classmate or superior acts in an harassing or otherwise unbecoming manner, please inform me immediately so I can deal with it immediately.  Questions?
JORDAN	None at this time, sir.
C.O.	Then that's all I have to say. Dismissed.

JORDAN	Sir, I just want you to know... I'm not here to make a statement.  I don't want to make men look foolish. All I care about is completing the training and getting operational experience -- just like everyone else, I suspect.
C.O.	If you were like everyone else, lieutenant, I suspect we wouldn't be making statements about not making statements, would we?  Take your leave.

JORDAN	Pardon the hour, sir.  But you told me to come to you immediately if I felt I was being mistreated in any way.
C.O.	Didn't take long.

C.O.	All right, lieutenant, give me a name and specifics, I'll have the X.O. file an action first thing in the morning.  A name?
JORDAN	It's you, sir.  And it started the day I came here.
C.O.	Oh, really.
JORDAN	It's this double-standard, the separate quarters, the deferential treatment.  It's how you pulled out my chair and nearly served high tea the first time we met.
C.O.	Because I was civil, now you're complaining.
JORDAN	I can't afford civility, sir.  How am I supposed to fit in with these guys when you've got me set up as an outsider?  Even if I make it under these rules, I still lose, because there'll always be a flag in my file -- "Yeah, she made it, but..."  I mean, really -- why didn't you just issue me a goddamn petticoat to wear around the base?
C.O.	Did you just have a brain-fart?
JORDAN	Pardon?
C.O.	Did you just barge in here and curse at your base commander?  If so, I regard that as a bonafide brain- fart, and I resent it when people fart inside my home.
JORDAN	I think you've resented me from the start, sir.

C.O.	What I resent, lieutenant, is some politician using my base as a test tube for her grand social experiment.  What I resent is the sensitivity training that is now mandatory for my men... the day-care center I have to build where an officer's lounge used to be... and the OB/GYN I have to keep on staff just so someone can keep track of your personal pap smears.  But most of all, lieutenant, I resent your perfume, however subtle it may be, competing with the aroma of my fine three-dollar-and-fifty- nine cent cigar, which I will happily put out this very instant if the phallic nature of it happens to offend your goddamn fragile sensibilities.  DOES IT?
JORDAN	No, sir.
C.O.	No, sir, WHAT?
JORDAN	The shape doesn't bother me.  It's just that goddamn rotten stench.

C.O.	Well.  'Least now we're talking the same language.  So one standard.  Is that what you're after?
JORDAN	Same rules for everyone, sir.
C.O.	Straight up?
JORDAN	Across the board, sir.
C.O.	And if you just happen to wash out, I won't have to contend with you bitchin' to some hairy-chested female Senator?  And please note I did not identify any one in particular.
JORDAN	Wouldn't dream of it, sir.

C.O.	Then good night.
JORDAN	So I'll get a fair shot?
C.O.	You'll get everything you want, O'Neil.  Let's see if you want what you're gonna get.

JORDAN	See me, sir?
C.O.	You makin' friends with the press, lieutenant?

JORDAN	Sir, I want you to know that I had nothing to do with any of this.  Not this article, not --
C.O.	We'll all have lunch.  Good idea. Oh, and let's be sure to invite this sociologist, too -- just in case we want to have a FUCKING BRIDGE GAME AFTERWARDS!

JORDAN	Permission to leave, sir?
C.O.	Permission to evaporate, O'Neil.

C.O.	I don't know of any delicate way to say this, lieutenant, so I won't try.  Claims have been made that you have engaged in fraternization -- of the same-sex variety.  Specifically, that you were...  "... seen leaving the apartment of another female officer at such a time and in such a manner as to suggest conduct unbecoming."
JORDAN	Sir, if someone is suggesting that I'm a lesbian, they're wrong.

JORDAN	I'm saying, we're just friends.
C.O.	I find this as distasteful as you, lieutenant.  But if it's on my desk, it's on my shoulders.  There's going to be an inquiry -- it will not be quick and it will definitely not be pretty.  You should prepare yourself.
JORDAN	Sir, please... if there's any way to do this without dragging everyone through the mud...
C.O.	I don't see how, O'Neil.  Dismissed.

JORDAN	Sir.  If tomorrow... I was not under your command... would the inquiry still go forward?
C.O.	I'm not sure what --
JORDAN	Would you have the discretion to end it right then and there?

C.O.	Well, if you had to go over my head, lieutenant, that's the way to do it.  Christ, nothin' like a 0-200 call from the Commander and Chief to get the bowels movin'.
JORDAN	Sir?  What did he say?
C.O.	Basically -- he asked me if I could unring a bell.

CORTEZ	Aw, what is this...
JORDAN	Sir...

JORDAN	Ah, c'mon...
CORTEZ	Motherachrist...

JORDAN	Fine by me, sir!
CORTEZ	No problem, sir!

JORDAN	Newberry, get a photo.  South?
CORTEZ	Entering my scan now...
JORDAN	West?

MCCOOL	Shit.  Think we're had.
CORTEZ	Smoke her.
MCCOOL	I ain't gonna shoot her.
CORTEZ	Only blanks.  Lemme do it.
MCCOOL	Hey.  Ain't your call, man.

CORTEZ	Banditos on the east perimeter!  150 yards!  Shit, she was part of it!
MCCOOL	Fuck me.

CORTEZ	What, we're gonna pry 'em out with paddles?
MCCOOL	O'Neil.  Our air's gonna crap out as soon as we get down there.  You know that, don't you?

DEHAVEN'S AIDE	White House boys want a private meeting.
DEHAVEN	I'll act surprised.

DEHAVEN	Think I overplayed it?
DEHAVEN'S AIDE	Congress and the Pentagon share a lot of plumbing.  They'll never know whose leak it is.

DEHAVEN	Yes?
DEHAVEN'S AIDE	Did you hear?
DEHAVEN	She made it through S.E.R.E. training.  Got a call this morning from --
DEHAVEN'S AIDE	Not that.  The White House just announced that it was sponsoring legislation that would, in one stroke, void all remaining elements of the 1948 Combat Exclusion Laws.

HAYES	... last few years have brought many advances in the interests of women in naval service, particularly in the land-based maritime specialties. What's more, the Navy has instituted special sensitivity courses with an eye on --
DEHAVEN	Whoa, whoa, whoa.  "Land-based maritime specialties." Gimme a second here to de-euphemize that...

HAYES	Hardly the case, Senator.
DEHAVEN	Well, I'm just an old dame without much time left, so you'll pardon me if I jump right in here before they discontinue my blood-type.  I am deeply concerned over the Navy's seemingly incontrovertible attitude toward women in the military.  Case in point...

DEHAVEN	The Lark Report.
HAYES	Madam Senator... this is an internal document of the U.S. Navy.  I must seriously question whether --
DEHAVEN	The Navy's conclusion regarding the crash of an F-14 aboard an aircraft carrier.  Female aviator, it just so happens.  You're familiar with this report and its conclusion, am I right?
HAYES	I was one member of the investigating commission.
DEHAVEN	Yes, I see your signature right here -- twice the size of everyone else's.  And your conclusion was "pilot error," hmm?
HAYES	I'm really not prepared for any kind of in-depth review of --
DEHAVEN	I'd like to think our next Secretary of the Navy would be prepared for anything, Mr. Hayes.

HAYES	The commission concluded that the aviator in question failed to execute a proper approach to the carrier.
DEHAVEN	That aside for the moment, I'm struck by the tenor, the ill-spirit of your report... the degrading remarks by other aviators... innuendo about her performance in unrelated situations... even a reference to her sexual activity the weekend prior.  In my seven years on this committee, I've never seen a downed aviator treated like this.  Never.  I'm deeply disturbed by this report, Mr. Hayes.  Not just what it bodes for women in the military -- but for your own confirmation as well.

DEHAVEN	So everyone I talk to says you're top drawer with silk stockings inside.
JORDAN	Thank you, ma'am.  Um, may I ask what this is regarding?
DEHAVEN	High-school pentathlete... ROTC scholarship, graduated with honors... top marks in Basic Training... and, as it just so happens, a constituent of my home state of Virginia.  Oh, the things I'll do for one extra vote.

JORDAN	Coronado.
DEHAVEN	California.
JORDAN	I know that, sir.  Ma'am.  It's just that... Beggin' your pardon, Senator, but... do you understand that this involves combat training?
DEHAVEN	This is just a test case, O'Neil. But if it works out -- if you work out -- it could well change the Navy's official policy on women in combat.  Or, actually, its official non-policy.  Now who's your immediate superior there?
JORDAN	Captain Dwyer.  Technically.
DEHAVEN	My office will fill him in and help expedite.  Look forward to meeting you at the proper time.  Jumping off now...
JORDAN	Uh, question, ma'am.
DEHAVEN	Yes, dear.
JORDAN	Would I be the only one?  The only woman?
DEHAVEN	There'll be more to follow -- but yes, dear, right now you're the pick of a very large litter.  And your success would mean a lot.  Jumping, now...

JORDAN	Can't complain, ma'am.
DEHAVEN	Hmmm.  Maybe I'll ask when I see you in person.
JORDAN	Uh, ma'am.
DEHAVEN	Gonna be visiting that all-woman's America's cup team in a few weeks -- If I were a gambler, I'd say Dennis O'Conner's days are numbered.  But they're in San Diego, so I thought I'd take a quick promenade of the base.

DEHAVEN	Jordan.  I always hoped we'd get together -- though just now I'm gearing up for a child-care vote that --
JORDAN	Lieutenant Thomas Wickwire.

JORDAN	You know him.
DEHAVEN	Sounds familiar.
JORDAN	It should.  You nominated him for Spec-Recon just three days after you nominated me.
DEHAVEN	Jordan.  Might we do this over lunch tomorrow?  I do very much want to talk, but now is scarcely --
JORDAN	Did you set me up?  Did you set me up just to see me fail?
DEHAVEN	Absolutely not.

DEHAVEN	Wickwire was there to help.  To be my eyes on the inside, to make sure you were getting a fair shot.  At least that was the intent.
JORDAN	What changed?
DEHAVEN	Should probably ask him that.
JORDAN	If I have to ask again, Senator, I'll be asking in front of cameras.

JORDAN	So?  Isn't the President jumping on your bandwagon?
DEHAVEN	What he did was light the bandwagon on fire.  Because he knows what I know -- that American families are not prepared to put their daughters in harm's way.
JORDAN	You don't know that.
DEHAVEN	In face, I do:  Roper, Harris, Gallop -- they all come back the same.
JORDAN	What are you saying?  That a women's life is more valuable than a man's? That a women's death hurts a family more?
DEHAVEN	I'm saying it's not going to happen. Not when the President is set to turn this into a third-rail issue should I choose to ever campaign against him.  He will fry me six ways to Sunday for sending daughters and young mothers off to war -- and, quite possibly, for bringing them back in body bags.

JORDAN	You were never going to let women serve in combat.  You always had a safety net.  Or thought you did.
DEHAVEN	Jordan.  I don't expect you to fully understand this -- but sometimes there's more to be gained from the fight than the victory.
JORDAN	So the rhetoric gets you headlines. But the reality gets you in trouble.
DEHAVEN	The reality is this:  We send far too many men off to war.  I don't need to compound the problem with women.  Can you honestly tell me you wanted that life?  Squat-pissing in some third-world jungle with --
JORDAN	I wanted the choice.  The chance to prove myself, my skills, my work, me.  That's how it should've been.

DEHAVEN	I once promised you a fast ticket, Jordan, and I always meant to make good on that.  Come work for me.  I can always use a hard-charger on my team.
JORDAN	You promise Wickwire a fast ticket, too?
DEHAVEN	I've had no direct communication with him since this whole thing began.  And that's quite verifiable.
JORDAN	I'm sure it is.
DEHAVEN	You'll think about my offer?
JORDAN	You know, I wonder what the SecNav would think about it.  If I spoke with him.
DEHAVEN	Well, I spoke with Mr. Hayes this morning myself -- and told him the deal was off.  No more test cases. He was only too happy to oblige.  Don't play politics with me, little darlin'.  You'd be up way past your bedtime.

HAYES	So she picks the women, we pick the programs.  Seals?
FLAG OFFICER #1	I'd go Special Reconnaissance. Every bit as tough -- and we have a 60 percent drop-out rate among the men.
HAYES	Then I suggest we start there.
FLAG OFFICER #1	Doesn't matter who she picks.  No woman is going to last one week in a commando training course.  And I don't care who it is.

HAYES	What the hell is the President trying to do?  Steal DeHaven's thunder?
FLAG OFFICER #1	I think it's more important, sir, to decide what we're going to do -- since it's apparent this issue is not going away quietly.
HAYES	G.I. Jane.  And which one of you told me she wouldn't last a week? Huh?

JORDAN	Montgomery, why do they call you "Flea"?
FLEA	It's really "F. Lee Montgomery" -- but that gets whittled down to just "Flea."  For short, ma'am.
JORDAN	So it really has nothing to do with actual brain size?
FLEA	No, ma'am.
JORDAN	Well, Flea, I appreciate the respect you just showed me.  But I don't need it and don't want it -- not that kind of respect, anyway.  It's just gonna hurt us both, okay?
FLEA	I'll work on it, ma'am.
JORDAN	Do that.

JORDAN	Hey.  You okay, Flea?
FLEA	'Snot me.  It's him.

FLEA	Really don't wanna be captured, el- tee.  Heard some bad things.
JORDAN	Fuck.  Basher-Basher, this is Ground Crew Six requesting emergency extraction. Stand by for a PRC fix...

FLEA	Close as I can get, el-tee!
JORDAN	Flea, 'Cool, Cortez, Newman -- take your minis, hit the water.  Go, GO!

FLEA	Six o'clock!  Marking, marking!
JORDAN	Spotted you, Chief.  Pri One is to slip you some air, so we're coming down with a tank -- just something until the A-team shows.  Over.

INSTRUCTOR JOHNS	Don't have to use it, O'Neil, but it's gotta go out.  Five... four... three...
JORDAN	I can make this wall without --
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS	... two... one... MARK!

JORDAN	Just do it, okay?
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS	If you can't feel the other guy's pecker, you ain't in tight enough! I want nuts to butts!
JORDAN	Come on, Montgomery...
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS	Flea!  O'Neil!  Why is there a break in that line?

INSTRUCTOR JOHNS	O'Neil?
JORDAN	Sir?
INSTRUCTOR JOHNS	You're wanted at the C.O.'s.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO	Time.
THE CHIEF	Check your watch, Pyro.  Seems fast.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO	Miller.  Thought the guy was made of depleted uranium.  Really didn't expect to lose him.
THE CHIEF	Every class has its surprises, Pyro. This one'll be no different.

THE CHIEF	Boat Five -- Wickwire, Cozad, Vinyl, Intagliata, Ayers, and Wise. Lieutenant Wickwire is your senior officer.  Follow his orders to your death.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	Get it up!

THE CHIEF	You don't think she'd be raped if she were captured?  You don't think the threat of rape would be used to leverage the men?
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	You broke a dozen training rules back there -- before I lost count.
THE CHIEF	I've had it.  Just because they pay me like a baby-sitter doesn't mean I'm gonna be one.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	She's a trainee, just like the others.  Why are you coming down so hard?
THE CHIEF	She's an officer.  There's a higher standard.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	She's a women, and that's why you're ridin' her bareback.
THE CHIEF	Of course it is.  And I'm gonna stay on her until everyone realizes this is not some bullshit equal-rights thing, that real lives are gonna be lost.  Maybe mine, maybe yours.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	I oughtta report you.
THE CHIEF	I think you probably would -- if you didn't know I was right.

JORDAN	Thank you, sir.  But I like these just fine.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	Not doin' them very fine, O'Neil.
JORDAN	I'll try anyway, sir.
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	You'll try what we tell you to try, O'Neil.  Go regulation.

INSTRUCTOR PYRO	Automatic five-second deduction, which slips you under the wire. It's called "gender-norming," O'Neil -- standard procedure for all females in physical training courses.  Where you been the last few years?
JORDAN	What "all females"?  If I'm the only --

JORDAN	The Navy Cross...
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	I believe he earned it for saving a man's life in Saudi Arabia.  He wanted you to have it.  He was very clear on that point.
JORDAN	I was looking for him earlier, but...
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	The Chief was granted early retirement as of 17-hundred yesterday.  By 18-hundred he was gone.  Out of the Navy.
JORDAN	Just a coincidence?
INSTRUCTOR PYRO	Maybe it's not my place to speculate on his private thoughts.  But I think the Chief knew that his way -- his world -- had come and gone.

JORDAN	Lieutenant O'Neil.
ROYCE	Gotta situation here.  Where are you?  Stuck in traffic?
JORDAN	Not due in for 22 minutes, sir. Watcha got?

JORDAN	Do we know it's him using the beacon?  Not a decoy?
ROYCE	Signals received only sparingly, in such a pattern that leads us to conclude it is a downed aviator trying to conserve his batteries.
JORDAN	Chances of recovery?
ROYCE	You're the analyst for East China, O'Neil.  Analyze.

JORDAN	North Korean beaches are the best protected, most heavily monitored in the world.  The civilian population is so propagandized that it acts as an Early Warning system.  Extraction team has to be small and silent -- I'd go with Seals over Delta Force. Problem is, don't want to hold a conventional sub off-shore for target practice.  Where's The Polk?
ROYCE	Halfway 'round the world.  So that's the problem -- we can get the team in, just not out.
JORDAN	Unless you Whiskey Run.
ROYCE	Blank faces here, O'Neil.
JORDAN	Quick-hit technique used by Capone. Rigged a getaway car with running boards and handles.  All his guys had to do was jump on and take a ride.  Check the files -- DPRK-57 -- I doped it out as a contingency plan:  Seal Team infiltrates, picks up the package, links up with recovery sub.  But don't waste time opening and closing hatches.  They just grab the periscope and hang on for neutral waters.

ROYCE	You expect the extraction team to ride the sub bare-back?  Is that correct, O'Neil?
JORDAN	Only four minutes to neutral waters, sir.  Why not?

ROYCE	That was good headwork, lieutenant.
JORDAN	Thank you, sir.  We hear back from the Pentagon?
ROYCE	Probably hear back from CNN first.
JORDAN	Hate this part.  Just sweating it out on the sidelines.
ROYCE	Intel has its own glory, lieutenant -- no matter how subtle.

ROYCE	By the way, I'll need that option paper by 11-hundred today so I can review it with Admiral Hanover.  And do we have any of that breakfast tea around here?
JORDAN	Is this my glory, sir?

ROYCE	So why're you even considering it? Are you?
JORDAN	Just like you would be.
ROYCE	Spec-Recon.  Those guys are world- class warriors.  And they will not want you there, Jordan.
JORDAN	I take it you don't either.  Feet.

ROYCE	Well, you're doin' shit-hot at Intel.
JORDAN	Royce.  We're the same age, we started the same time -- and now you're sitting in the upperdecks while I'm still down in the bullpen. What does that tell you about the Navy?
ROYCE	She's haze grey and underway...
JORDAN	You need operational duty to really advance... you need combat training to go operational... yet combat training is off-limits to people with tits.  I'm topped out at Intel. Forget the glass ceiling -- I'm beating my head on a big brass ceiling.
ROYCE	So dump on me.
JORDAN	This has nothing to do with you.
ROYCE	Well, guess I don't even need to be here...
JORDAN	Get your dick back here.  It has everything to do with you.
ROYCE	You're such a ball-breaker sometimes.  Especially at night.
JORDAN	Sorry.  But after our days...  So if I try this thing... if I ship out to Coronado... what happens here?
ROYCE	I'll try to keep the door open.  If you wash out, I make it so that --
JORDAN	Wai', wait.  What happens if it works?  Four months of training, three years of operational duty. What then?
ROYCE	I don't feel like doing an option paper on the rest of my life, Jordan.  Maybe we should just let it happen.
JORDAN	Which is guy-speak for...
ROYCE	Sounded lame as soon as it came out of my mouth.  But I'm trying to be honest, okay?  Three years is a long time.  Don't ask me to predict how I'll feel then, Jordan, because I don't know.  And either do you.
JORDAN	You know, right up until you said that -- I thought I did know.

ROYCE	Jordan...
JORDAN	Thank you, Royce.  It was shaping up like such a tough call -- and then you go and make it so goddamn easy. Really, thank you so much.

ROYCE	I've been trying you for five days. Don't they give you messages?
JORDAN	It's hard to find time to sleep, Royce.  Much less keep up with my phone life.
ROYCE	How hard they making it on you?

ROYCE	That bad?
JORDAN	I feel like there's men here, there's women here -- then there's men.  But hey, what'd I expect?

ROYCE	Well, not this.  I was doing the Pentagon scene few nights ago.  Got some fresh stuff -- about you.  You may be in a hostile camp.  I think someone may be taking steps to ensure that you crash and burn.
JORDAN	Me?  Why me?
ROYCE	Don't you know?  How they're talking about you?
JORDAN	I saw an article...
ROYCE	I can't walk two blocks in Washington without hearing about "G.I. Jane."  You're all over the place, and whether you wanted it or not, the feminists are sizing you up for that poster.

JORDAN	So why are you telling me this?
ROYCE	Big symbols make big targets, Jordan.  I think someone's gunning for you.
JORDAN	You know, Royce, I got enough heat on me without you turning up the jets, too.
ROYCE	I'm only trying to warn you in case --
JORDAN	Well, let me warm you:  I'm going though with this.  The more everybody fucks with me, fucks with my head, the more it just makes me want to finish.  So don't expect me back crying in your arms any time soon, okay?
ROYCE	That's not what I want, Jordan.  I mean... it is and it isn't...
JORDAN	Still can't make up your mind, huh? Gotta go, Royce.
ROYCE	Jordan.  You watch your ass.
JORDAN	Sure.  I'll join the crowd.

JORDAN	All I wanted was an honest chance. And If I couldn't get it, I couldn't stay.
ROYCE	And this class officer... "Wickwire."  You think he was just trying to get even?  Striking back for...
JORDAN	Maybe.  Though it didn't seem like he was getting any satisfaction out of it.  Almost like...  Did I say he was class officer?
ROYCE	Almost like someone put him up to it.  Okay, who?
JORDAN	No shortage of suspects.
ROYCE	The Chief?  Or maybe even Turrentine?  Your C.O.?

ROYCE	C'mon, Jordan.  Do the headwork with me.
JORDAN	It's done with, Royce.  Let it go.
ROYCE	Someone screwed you over like this, left unanswered charges hanging over your head, and you're not gonna fight back?
JORDAN	I'm tired of fighting back.  I just wanted to come home and be safe and have you here and the river there and just forget the rest of the world, okay?
ROYCE	Well, before you crawl off to die, Jordan, give me five minutes of good headwork.

ROYCE	John James Urgayle.  The Chief.
JORDAN	What about him.
JORDAN	Instructors typically pull three year assignments.  This guy's in and out in one year -- your year.  That sound right?
JORDAN	Sounds like an amazing coincidence.
ROYCE	Or like maybe he was baby sitting a problem child for the Navy.
JORDAN	I don't know, I don't care.
ROYCE	Well, pardon me if I do.  Now who else?  Who could've leveraged a class officer like that?  C'mon, Jordan, keep your head in the game.

JORDAN	In Washington...
ROYCE	What?
JORDAN	Wickwire said he was dry-docked in Washington between stints at Coronado...

ROYCE	Wickwire, Thomas Dane... Second run at Coronado... and correct, they had him stashed in the "Appropriation Liaison Office," whatever that is.
JORDAN	You don't crap out of Spec-Recon and get another shot without dispensation from someone up in flag country.  He's got a Sea Daddy somewhere.
ROYCE	I'd sure like to know who.
JORDAN	Yeah.  Me too.

JORDAN	So here we are again.  Staring three years of operational duty in the face.
ROYCE	Look.  It's not like you'd be completely out of reach.  And maybe we could call in a few favors, get you stationed at Norfolk instead of Coronado.  There are ways of dealing with these things -- I mean, if people are so inclined.
JORDAN	Which is guy-speak for...
ROYCE	Yes, Jordan -- I'll wait for you no matter how long.

WICKWIRE	They're more afraid of you.
JORDAN	Well, now I feel so much better.
WICKWIRE	It was made clear before you came -- harassment equals career suicide. Can't say anything good, so they don't say much at all.  To your face, anyway.
JORDAN	Whose orders were those?
WICKWIRE	It was made clear.  Anyway, stay ballsy.  First week's hell, then it levels out.  Until S.E.R.E. training, anyway.  That's hell-and-a-half.
JORDAN	And how do you know that?
WICKWIRE	Made it to Week 10 last time.
JORDAN	I didn't know they let you try again.  Especially at your age.
WICKWIRE	You're kind of a surprise yourself.

WICKWIRE	Hey.  Way to gut it out.
JORDAN	Thanks, Wick.

JORDAN	Who is it?
WICKWIRE	You know, I had an apartment about this size once.
JORDAN	Wick.  They got your crew, too?
WICKWIRE	Intagliata was out chasing breakfast.  They found his tracks. Well, shit.

JORDAN	You really came back for more?  Of this?
WICKWIRE	When I was sittin' behind a desk in Washington, it made sense, somehow. Blame it on my big brother.  He was Spec-Recon.  And the stories he used to tell...
JORDAN	If you got a good one, Wick...

WICKWIRE	One time he was doing a rekkie of the Libyan coastline.  This is, like, right before we bombed Khadaffi into the past tense.  So his crew does a nighttime infil, maps all the big artillery placements and stuff, then turns around to get the hell gone.  But between them and the water are five Libyan guards, all armed to the nuts.
JORDAN	They had to kill 'em?
WICKWIRE	Nah, they were dead-ass asleep.  But on every guard's chest,they left one Marlboro cigarette.  Just a little calling card to say they'd been there -- and could come back any time they wanted.
JORDAN	That's a good story.
WICKWIRE	So the shit you gotta go through? To get from here to there?  Brother said it was worth it.  Worth the training... worth the divorce... worth anything.
JORDAN	He was married?
WICKWIRE	At first.
JORDAN	You got anybody, Wick?
WICKWIRE	Not me.  You?

WICKWIRE	O'Neil?
JORDAN	How'd you make it last time, Wick? How'd you get through this part?
WICKWIRE	Last time I didn't.
JORDAN	Let's keep talkin', Wick.  Just keep talkin' to me...

JORDAN	Sorry, didn't mean to --
WICKWIRE	That's okay.  Just an ex-girlfriend. And know I remember why.
JORDAN	First big night of liberty and no date?  You're pathetic, Wickwire.
WICKWIRE	Maybe I'll just head over to McP's with the others, have a drink or four.  Don't wanna come, do you?
JORDAN	I can't go out.  Not like this.
WICKWIRE	I think you look beautiful.
JORDAN	Thanks for lying.  But you're the class officer, Wick, and it'd just be weird if we hook up.  Besides...

JORDAN	Do you, uh, know...
WICKWIRE	Sure, sure.
JORDAN	We're going over to her place to make salad and pasta.  Just, you know, nothing special.
WICKWIRE	Okay.  Well... thought I'd ask.

WICKWIRE	I'm sorry, O'Neil.  But as class officer, it's my obligation to report all violations.
JORDAN	This is insane.  You've got no proof.

JORDAN	What're you guys doing?  Huh?
MCCOOL	Just askin'
JORDAN	What, you gonna give it all up for a maple twist?  How dumb you gotta be? That's exactly what they --

MCCOOL	She part of the training?
JORDAN	I don't know...

JORDAN	If not, firing will only give away our position to hostiles in the area.  Now how smart is that?
MCCOOL	Mighta been civilian.

MCCOOL	32 feet, six inches!
JORDAN	I'm lookin', I'm lookin'!

JORDAN	'Cool?
MCCOOL	Smoke it!

JORDAN	So we got two full mini-tanks, three minutes each.  'Cool?  How much air in yours?
MCCOOL	Maybe half.  Not even.
JORDAN	Grab an oar, find a way to weight it down, we're gonna need it.  Cortez, help him.  Flea?  You take one of the two full minis -- and just follow my lead.

JORDAN	Say again, sir?
THE CHIEF	You heard me.  Move on.

JORDAN	Chief, sir, I don't understand why --
THE CHIEF	Educate her, Pyro.

JORDAN	Permission to get dressed, sir?
THE CHIEF	It seems the men couldn't get used to the sight of women blown open and their viscera hanging from tree limbs.  Israeli men would linger over wounded females -- often to the detriment of the mission, often endangering their own lives.  They don't use women anymore.
JORDAN	Sir, someone mentioned you received the Navy Cross.  May I ask what you got it for?
THE CHIEF	For pulling a 210-pound man out of a burning barrack in Saudi Arabia.
JORDAN	I see.  So when a man tries to rescue another man, he's a hero. But when he tries to rescue a woman, he's gone soft.
THE CHIEF	Could you have pulled that 210-pound man clear, lieutenant?

THE CHIEF	Females in combat situations impact unit cohesion.  Men fight better without women around.  And that is an historical fact.
JORDAN	It also seems like a problem with the men's attitude, sir.  So maybe you should be sniffing around their shower room instead.

THE CHIEF	England went out with a stress fracture.  That puts you in charge, lieutenant.
JORDAN	McCool's that same rank.  We're both j.g.'s.
THE CHIEF	You were commissioned one month earlier, which makes you the senior officer.  Remember.  There are no bad crews -- only bad leaders.

THE CHIEF	Simple question, lieutenant.  No reason not to answer.  What is your father's name?
JORDAN	Dad.
THE CHIEF	Any brothers?  Sisters?
JORDAN	Dick, Jane, and Spot.
THE CHIEF	Are you hungry?  What's your favorite food?  We'll try to get it for you.
JORDAN	Green Eggs and Ham.  You're not going to get anywhere.  You might as well put me in the cage.
THE CHIEF	You are in the cage, O'Neil.  Right here, right now.
JORDAN	Should I be afraid?
THE CHIEF	Right down to your worthless womb, and I'll tell you why.  This is my island.  My world.  And here I can get away with shit that would get me arrested anywhere else in the world. Take another scan of my little joy- boy outside.  If I can do that to a Navy Seal, what's gonna happen to you?  Huh?

THE CHIEF	Why didn't you shoot the woman, O'Neil?
JORDAN	Wasn't deemed a threat.
THE CHIEF	She led us right to you.  That's no threat?

THE CHIEF	Would you have shot if it was a man?
JORDAN	No.  Yes.  I mean, depends on --
THE CHIEF	The others already told me, O'Neil. They wanted to shoot, but you wouldn't let them.  Because you went soft on another women --
JORDAN	That's not right.
THE CHIEF	That's what your crew said.  Are they lying?  Or are you?
JORDAN	I think you're the liar.
THE CHIEF	I'm not the one who got five good men thrown in a bamboo cage.  You wear the bars, you made the call, and you got your whole crew --
JORDAN	We didn't know we were compromised. Firing would only've given away our position.
THE CHIEF	You think we should go easy on women, O'Neil?

THE CHIEF	Do you?
JORDAN	No.
THE CHIEF	I'm so glad we agree.

THE CHIEF	Didn't you know you'd be raped if you were captured?  Didn't you even think about that?
JORDAN	Sure.  Just like your men do.
THE CHIEF	I think we oughtta practice it, just so you know what to expect.

THE CHIEF	Well, I'm trying to figure out if you're stupid, unlucky, gluttonous -- or some new alloy of all three.
JORDAN	Good to see you again, too, sir.
THE CHIEF	Okay, O'Neil.  So you've impressed all the others.  Now try me.

THE CHIEF	Managed to activate the ELB.  If you just radio base and let them know, they'll fix on that.  Oh, and make sure they send a helo with a winch -- door's blocked by a reef.  Over.
JORDAN	Chief, sir -- rescue team won't be here for 15 minutes.  What's your air situation?  Over.
THE CHIEF	Say again?  How many micks?
JORDAN	15, sir.

THE CHIEF	Got it.
JORDAN	Show us where you are, Chief.

THE CHIEF	O'Neil...
JORDAN	Shut up, sir.  I'm concentrating.

SLUTNIK	Well, who the shit you think you are?  Comin' in here like that?
JORDAN	Your new roommate.

JORDAN	Anybody usin' these drawers here?
SLUTNIK	Hey, hey, HEY.  No possibility.  You can't stay in here.  You can't sleep right next to me.
JORDAN	Funny, the C.O. says I can.

SLUTNIK	Aw, lookit this, lookit this -- she's bringin' Tampax in here. C'mon, you got nothin' but rooms over there.
JORDAN	That your desk?  I'll take this one.
SLUTNIK	WOULD YOU JUST GET OUTTA HERE?
JORDAN	Listen, Sex Ape.  I'm here to stay. And if you don't want me for a roommate or classmate, you got two options -- move out or ring out. End of file.

SLUTNIK	Clear.
JORDAN	North?

JORDAN	All right, fire-and-evade maneuvers. Drop everything but weapons and the PRC radio -- we're gonna be high speed, low drag all the way to the link-up site.  Ready?
SLUTNIK	Sure.  Now she wants to shoot.
JORDAN	MOVE!

SLUTNIK	I just wonder how that happened.
JORDAN	Cortez, see if you can dig out the tools without losing the rest of out gear.  Try a wrench on that thing.

SLUTNIK	You don't suppose this is just part of...
JORDAN	FLEA!  KEEP YOUR EYES ON THAT SPOT! Mark it, mark it!  Cortez?  What the hell you waiting for?

SLUTNIK	Maybe we should call the Coast Guard.
JORDAN	Shut your hole, Slutnik.

MCCOOL	We're fucked.
SLUTNIK	Darth Vader reads poetry...
MCCOOL	We are so fucked.

SLUTNIK	Can't live with them, can't kill them.  What's the point?
MCCOOL	Somebody throw a tent over this circus.

MCCOOL	You mind?  I'm trying to eat here.
SLUTNIK	So am I.

SLUTNIK	This ain't workin' right!
MCCOOL	What's our go-to-shit plan, O'Neil?
SLUTNIK	This ain't even workin' wrong!

THE SPOOK	Subject?
ROYCE	O'Neil, Jordan.
THE SPOOK	Thought you two were file-closed.
ROYCE	You knew about us?
THE SPOOK	Sorry.  Thought you knew I knew.

THE SPOOK	All right.  So who stands to gain if Jordan flames out in a big way?
ROYCE	The E-Ringers?  Full integration is gonna cost the services billions at the worst possible time -- when Congress is already swinging the axe.
THE SPOOK	Congress cuts, military bleeds.  But Pentagon's a big place.  Let's narrow the sights.
ROYCE	The Navy?  They've made it clear they don't want to pull missiles out of subs to make room for women's heads.  What's it gonna cost to make a fleet of Trident's co-ed?
THE SPOOK	Sabotage born of economics? Wouldn't be a first.  But is Hayes really going to start his watch with such a public failure?
ROYCE	Possibly.  Just to spite DeHaven.
THE SPOOK	Hmm.  Let's aim higher.

THE SPOOK	The White House.  If Jordan wins, DeHaven wins in spades.  Why?  Well, it's been said that the only man the President fears -- ain't no man.
ROYCE	The first female President?
THE SPOOK	Don't for a second think she didn't leak this story.  "G.I. Jane" gives DeHaven a symbol that taps into the biggest constituency of them all.
ROYCE	Women.
THE SPOOK	If you were the President, wouldn't that put a little piss in your shoes?
ROYCE	I don't know.  Seems...
THE SPOOK	This ain't about some little soldier girl sloggin' her way through commando school.  The implications go way beyond.
ROYCE	Christ, I don't want to see her take a fall.  She thinks I do, but...
THE SPOOK	I take it this file is still open.
ROYCE	Even tough I don't talk to her every day -- I still talk to her every day.  Know what I mean?
THE SPOOK	Okay, so now work it from the other end.  Think about California -- and how things might be handled there.
ROYCE	I don't...  What, someone on base?  A "mole"?
THE SPOOK	This is what you get for brain- picking an old CIA spook.  but if I needed to control the outcome of this test case, that's how I'd do it.  A man-in-place.  Makes everything very controllable.

CARTER	No thanks, I'm not thirsty.
BLAKE	It's for your cigarette.  I prefer not to contaminate my crime scene with micropollutants.

CARTER	Why am I here?
BLAKE	They said on the phone you were assigned to the Meyers case.
CARTER	With all due respect, detective, you can't go blaming every brutal murder in Illinois on Michael Meyers.
BLAKE	Pamela Whittington was a long time associate of Dr. Loomis.  Her home office was ransacked.  It was chock full of Loomis' files on Meyers.  It'd say that makes Meyers a suspect, wouldn't you?
CARTER	Well, when you put it that way.
BLAKE	Right.  So why don't we get on with this investigation?
CARTER	I like a woman who takes control.

CARTER	One set of muddy shoe prints.
BLAKE	That don't match either of the victim's.

CARTER	Where, judging by the looks of the finger and palm prints, she struggles to open the window before banging on it like hell.
BLAKE	Unable to escape, she turns and attacks the killer, but doesn't connect.
CARTER	No blood on the knife.

CARTER	The killer knocks the knife out of her hand with the wrought-iron poker.
BLAKE	Broken blood vessels on her right forearm.

CARTER	As which point she drops to her knees in pain...
BLAKE	Explaining the low height of the blood splatter on the curtains...

CARTER	Impressive, Blake.  Where'd you learn how to do that?
BLAKE	Girl scouts.

CARTER	Carter.
BLAKE	It's Blake.  Meet me at Grand View.
CARTER	Where?
BLAKE	The cemetery...
CARTER	Yeah, alright... I'll be there in ten.

CARTER	You take all your dates here. Blake?
BLAKE	Only the real stiffs.
CARTER	I can be real stiff.
BLAKE	Charming.

BLAKE	That's it?
CARTER	Care to join me?
BLAKE	Come on, Carter.  You know it's Michael.
CARTER	What do you want me to do, put out an A.P.B. on a man in overalls wearing a white mask dragging a headstone?
BLAKE	Yes.
CARTER	Sweet dreams, Blake.

CARTER	Carter.
BLAKE	It's Blake.  How do you feel about Wisconsin?

BLAKE	We're sorry to startle you, Miss Tate.
CARTER	The door was open, so we let ourselves in.

CARTER	Detective Carter from the Haddonfield P.D.
BLAKE	Toni Blake from Langley P.D.

CARTER	I'll be damned.
KERI	Do I know you?

CARTER	Mind if we sit down?
KERI	I'd prefer you didn't.  I'm very busy.
CARTER	Okay, then how 'bout we ask you a few questions?
KERI	Detective...
CARTER	Carter.
KERI	... I think it would be best if you both left.
CARTER	Might want to stop and think about the safety of your students, Miss Tate.
KERI	I never stop thinking about it, Detective.  The only way in or out of this school is through that gate, and it is secured at all times.
CARTER	Funny, we just drove right in.
KERI	Well, I can assure you, it won't happen again.  Thanks for your concern.  Goodbye.

KERI	Bruce... what's going on?  The kids are here to pick out their costumes for the festival.
DEPUTY CLARK	Better take 'em to Virgil's downtown.  We got a dead body in there.

KERI	A dead body?
DEPUTY CLARK	It's Amy Kramer.
KERI	My god...
DEPUTY CLARK	Pretty messy.  Parents have already been notified.  Our office has been trying to get a hold of you...

KERI	Do you know who did this?
DEPUTY CLARK	Well, Eddie Catero didn't show up for work this morning... parents say he never came home last night. Car's still missing.
KERI	Think Eddie had something to do with it?
DEPUTY CLARK	Doesn't look good.

SHANE	Besides, it's historically inaccurate.
EDDIE	What the fuck are you talking about?
SHANE	Michael Meyers never used a meat cleaver.  It was a butcher knife.
EDDIE	Who are you, the serial killer police?  What difference does it make?
SHANE	It's not historically accurate, that's all.

SHANE	Another historical inaccuracy.
EDDIE	Would somebody shut this guy up?

JIMMY	Hey, Mis Whittington, what's up?
PAMELA	My blood pleasure.  You scared the hell out of me.
JIMMY	Oh.  Sorry.  I'm on my way to the ring and --
PAMELA	I think someone broke into my house.
JIMMY	No shit?!
PAMELA	No shit.

PAMELA	Jimmy, what are you doing?
JIMMY	Checking out your place.
PAMELA	No.  Wait for the police.
JIMMY	And miss the big game?  No way.

JIMMY	Nothing to fear.  The coast is clear.
PAMELA	You sure?
JIMMY	Totally.  I checked all the rooms and closets...
PAMELA	Nothing's missing?
JIMMY	Don't think so.  But they sure did a real number on your office. Crap everywhere.
PAMELA	My office?
JIMMY	Yeah.  Oh, and they messed up your kitchen pretty good, too... Goodnight.

KERI	Nothing's changed since yesterday, or last week, or last month... the answer's still "no."
JOHN	You're so predictable.

JOHN	What the --
KERI	Betcha' didn't predict that.

JOHN	I'm sixteen, Keri.  I should be able to live wherever I want.
KERI	And I should have a son who calls me "Mom".  Looks like we're both shit out of luck.
JOHN	Okay, you win.  I'll call you Mom. Now can I move into the dorms?
KERI	No.

JOHN	Well, Dad thinks it's okay.
KERI	You're father thinks it's okay to run off to Cancun with a blonde bimbo in a halter top.  Somehow his opinion doesn't count.
JOHN	I promise not to run off to Cancun.
KERI	Forget it.
JOHN	The dorms are only fifty feet away.  You could practically see into my window.  So, what difference does it make?
KERI	My point exactly.  See, we both agree.

JOHN	Alright, I was wrong.  There is a big difference between rooming with your buddies and living with your mother and school headmaster.
KERI	I took the padlock off your door. What more do you want?
JOHN	My life is a living hell.

KERI	Where are you going?
JOHN	To the bathroom.  Can I do that alone or do you want to watch?
KERI	I thought you'd never ask.

JOHN	You're twisted.
KERI	I know.

KERI	Shit, John!  What the hell were you doing out there?!
JOHN	Nothing.
KERI	You're kidding with that answer, right?
JOHN	I just went for a walk.  It's no big deal.
KERI	Wrong.  There are rules in this house and you're going to follow them whether you like it or not.
JOHN	Or what?  You're gonna shoot me?
KERI	It's an option.
JOHN	Well, maybe if you'd let me live in the dorms, I wouldn't have to sneak out to spend time with my friends.
KERI	Oh, so now it's my fault?
JOHN	Just forget it...

JOHN	I'm sorry, alright?  It was just a stupid joke.
KERI	Will, sit down...

JOHN	You some kind of fugitive or something?
KERI	I was trying to get away from someone.

JOHN	Now you're joking, right?
KERI	Afraid not.  You can pick your friends, but you can't pick your family.

JOHN	Wait a minute... slow down... you're telling me Michael Meyers is my uncle?
KERI	Yes.
JOHN	Any other psychotic relatives I should know about?  Jason?  Freddy Krueger?
KERI	No.
JOHN	Why didn't you tell me?
KERI	I was trying to protect you from this...

KERI	Where are you going?
JOHN	I don't know.

JOHN	He found you, didn't he?
KERI	Get on the bus.
JOHN	Where's Molly?  She's not in her room...
KERI	Just get on the bus.
JOHN	I'm not leaving without her.
KERI	John, you can't help her now.
JOHN	What?  Where is she?
KERI	John...

JOHN	Oh, God... no... not Molly.
KERI	Please, get on the bus...

JOHN	Yeah, me too, Keri.
KERI	Call me Laurie, will ya?
JOHN	Keri.... Laurie... how about if I just call you Mom?
KERI	That would work.

JOHN	Shelve the barf bag.  It's the key to the main gate.
MOLLY	Where'd you get it?
JOHN	Swiped it from my mom's desk yesterday.
MOLLY	You stole it?
JOHN	I borrowed it.

MOLLY	Not me.
JOHN	Why not?
MOLLY	I can't afford to get caught.

JOHN	Nah, I didn't tell her where I went.
MOLLY	Is that all you guys can think about?  Amy never came back last night.  Maybe she's in trouble.

MOLLY	What are you doing here?!
JOHN	I came to see you.
MOLLY	I can see that.  Why?
JOHN	Can I come in?
MOLLY	Are you crazy?  You'll get caught.
JOHN	Then you come out here.
MOLLY	Then I'll get caught.
JOHN	Well, I'm not going until I talk to you.
MOLLY	Alright.  I'll come out.  Just be quiet.

MOLLY	You really think Eddie killed her?
JOHN	You saw that Michael Meyers display.  You've got to be pretty twisted to come up with something like that.
MOLLY	I guess.  It's just hard to believe.

JOHN	You look kind of cold.
MOLLY	I'm okay.
JOHN	Here, take my jacket.

JOHN	Better?
MOLLY	Yeah.

KERI	Molly, of all the people... if I can't trust my resident assistant, then what?
MOLLY	I know.  I'm really, really sorry, Miss Tate.  Please let me keep the job... it's the only way I can afford to stay here.
KERI	Okay, tell you what... you can still be the school R.A., but no dance tomorrow night.
MOLLY	Okay... thank you.

MOLLY	Linda!  He killed Linda!
KERI	Who?!
MOLLY	Michael Meyers!

WILL	Aren't they doing a terrific job this year?
KERI	Looks great.  It does.
WILL	You okay?  You seem a little off.
KERI	Nothing a good stiff drink can't fix.

WILL	It's John, isn't it?
KERI	It's always John.
WILL	Still wants to move out?
KERI	He's been living out of moving boxes for three months.
WILL	This kid just wants his freedom.
KERI	It's not going to happen.
WILL	The tighter you squeeze, the harder he'll try to break free.
KERI	Oh, please... you get that out of a fortune cookie?
WILL	Doesn't make it bad advice.

KERI	I'm going into town... run a few errands before dark.  Need anything?
WILL	A box of fortune cookies... I'm running out of advice.
KERI	Bye Will.

WILL	Hey, you alright?
KERI	What?
WILL	What are you looking at?
KERI	I'm fine.  I just need to lie down...

KERI	There's something I have to tell you both.  It's going to sound strange...
WILL	What?
KERI	My name hasn't always been Keri Tate.  It was once Laurie Strode.
WILL	You're right.  It does sound strange.

WILL	Who?
KERI	Michael Meyers.
WILL	The serial killer?
KERI	He's my brother.

KERI	No, Will, this isn't the alcohol talking.  It's the truth.
WILL	I can't believe this is happening.
KERI	Shit happens.

WILL	You just dropped a shitload on him... give him some time to digest it.
KERI	Are you going to leave, too?
WILL	Never.

WILL	So you're really Michael Meyers' sister?
KERI	Yeah.
WILL	Do we have to invite him to the wedding?

KERI	Not a real fan of Halloween humor, Will.
WILL	Oh, right.  Sorry.
KERI	I'm gonna head back to the office... finish up some things.
WILL	Can't it wait till Monday?  I thought maybe we could dance...  I'm very light of my feet.

WILL	Keri, you all right?
KERI	We've got to get these kids out of here...
WILL	I'll make sure there's no kids left in the dorms...

LINDA	Look, they're staring right at us.
SHANE	You think your mom knows we snuck out last night?

LINDA	Wait.
SHANE	What is it?
LINDA	I have to pee.
SHANE	Can't you hold it?
LINDA	Can't you?

LINDA	You aced it, didn't you?
MOLLY	I did alright.

LINDA	Fuckin' A.
MOLLY	He gave me a fuckin' A?  Wow.

MOLLY	What's this?
LINDA	You say, "The key to my heart," and I'm gonna hurl.

LINDA	Better her than me.
MOLLY	You're unbelievable.

LINDA	Ooooh, busted.
MOLLY	Big time.  And news travels fast. Wouldn't be surprised if the whole school knows about this one by tonight.

LINDA	Shane's going as a condom.
MOLLY	I thought you were allergic to latex.
LINDA	I'll pop a Benadryl.
MOLLY	You think they'll let him in dressed like that?
LINDA	Oh, they're so stupid... I'll just tell them he's going as a sausage casing.

LINDA	BLAAAAAGGGHHHHH!
MOLLY	Shit, Linda!
LINDA	You're so easy...
MOLLY	Wasn't scaring the hell out of me once today enough?!
LINDA	Nope.  Hey, you think I'll win scariest costume?
MOLLY	Linda, you are without a doubt the scariest person on campus.
LINDA	Thanks!
MOLLY	Where's Shane?
LINDA	Condom Boy is waiting for me in the cafeteria.
MOLLY	But the dance is in the gymnasium.
LINDA	Very insightful.

LINDA	Let the party begin.
MOLLY	Have enough fun for the both of us.
LINDA	Oh, don't be such a victim.

HAROLD	Miss me, baby?
LOOSELEAF	I dunno, boy.
HAROLD	Hm?
LOOSELEAF	It's a bitch.
HAROLD	A bitch.
LOOSELEAF	Didn't recognize you.
HAROLD	We've never met.
LOOSELEAF	I wonder who'll recognize us first? They'll wet their pants.
HAROLD	I hope the men do.  I would rather the women didn't.
LOOSELEAF	I'm gonna wet my pants.

HAROLD	Home, sweet home.
LOOSELEAF	One thing, anyway--at least Penelope didn't throw out all your crap.  I bet Alice threw out all my crap after I'd been gone a week.
HAROLD	We'll see.

HAROLD	It appears that we're going to have to wait awhile for any more action here, Colonel.  Why don't you run on home while the evening's young.
LOOSELEAF	Home.  Jesus.  I'm like this.  Home!
HAROLD	Home is important to a man.
LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me?
HAROLD	No.
LOOSELEAF	How all the magazines show tits today.
HAROLD	Um.
LOOSELEAF	Used to be against the law, didn't it?
HAROLD	I suppose.
LOOSELEAF	Must have changed that law.

HAROLD	Home.
LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me?

LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me?
HAROLD	Oh, shit.
LOOSELEAF	How everybody says "fuck" and "shit" all the time.  I used to be scared shitless I'd say "fuck" or "shit" in public, by accident.  Now everybody says "fuck" and "shit," "fuck" and "shit" all the time. Something very big must have happened while we were out of the country.
HAROLD	Looseleaf--will you get the hell home?
LOOSELEAF	At least we found the diamonds.
HAROLD	At least!
LOOSELEAF	I'd really feel stupid if we didn't bring anything back home.
HAROLD	It's enough that you've brought yourself home!
LOOSELEAF	I wish you'd tell Alice that.  And that Goddamn Mrs. Wheeler.
HAROLD	Tell them yourself!
LOOSELEAF	You don't know my mother-in-law, boy.
HAROLD	After eight years in the jungle with you, I know Mrs. Wheeler better than I know anybody in the universe!
LOOSELEAF	I didn't tell you everything.
HAROLD	The time we were in a tree for fourteen days, you certainly tried to tell me everything about Mrs. Wheeler.
LOOSELEAF	I didn't even scratch the surface. You're lucky, boy.  You come home, and nobody's here.  When I go home, everybody's going to be there.
HAROLD	This room is full of ghosts.
LOOSELEAF	You're lucky, boy.  My house is gonna be filled with people.

LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me?
HAROLD	Go home!
LOOSELEAF	Thank God we found the fucking diamonds!
HAROLD	The hell with the diamonds!
LOOSELEAF	You were rich before.  This is the first time I was ever rich.
HAROLD	Go home!  Show them how rich you are for a change!
LOOSELEAF	Can I have the Cadillac?
HAROLD	Take the Cadillac and drive it off a cliff, for all I care.
LOOSELEAF	What'll you do for transportation?
HAROLD	I'll buy a hundred more Cadillacs. Go home!
LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me about that Cadillac?
HAROLD	Go home!
LOOSELEAF	When I drive it, I feel like I'm in the middle of a great big wad of bubblegum.  I don't hear anything, I don't feel anything.  I figure somebody else is driving.  It's a bitch.
HAROLD	Go home.
LOOSELEAF	I'm liable to find anything!
HAROLD	That's the point!  Walk in there and find whatever there is to find--before Alice can cover it up.
LOOSELEAF	I know, I know.  I dunno.  At least she's in the same house.  Sure was spooky, looking in the window there, and there she was.
HAROLD	So long, Colonel.
LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me?
HAROLD	Let's talk about it some other time.
LOOSELEAF	How short the skirts are.
HAROLD	Good night, Colonel.  It's been beautiful.
LOOSELEAF	Something very important about sex must have happened while we were gone.

LOOSELEAF	You know what gets me?  Those guys who went to the moon!  To the moon, boy!
HAROLD	Leave me alone!  After eight years of horrendously close association, the time has come to part!  I crave solitude and time for reflection-- and then a reunion in privacy with my own flesh and blood.  You and I may not meet again for months!
LOOSELEAF	Months?
HAROLD	I'm certainly not going to come horning back into your life tomorrow, and I will not welcome your horning back into mine.  A chapter has ended.  We are old comrades--at a parting of the ways.
LOOSELEAF	I'm lonesome already.

LOOSELEAF	I've been looking at motorcycles.
HAROLD	Go home!
LOOSELEAF	You ever own a motorcycle?
HAROLD	You're right!  We'll take a trip. A trip is what we'll take.  I don't want to talk about motorcycles.  I don't want to talk about tits.  Go home!
LOOSELEAF	Haven't got one.

HAROLD	And how were things?
LOOSELEAF	Let's talk about something else.

HAROLD	Otherwise, how are things?
LOOSELEAF	I sure didn't expect her to drop dead.

HAROLD	Could have happened to anybody.
LOOSELEAF	First Nagasaki--now this.
HAROLD	How about breakfast, wife?

LOOSELEAF	I dunno, boy.
HAROLD	The educational process.
LOOSELEAF	I guess.  You're lucky you don't have any old people around here.
HAROLD	She was about to get married again. She locked me out of the bedroom last night.

HAROLD	What's funny about that?
LOOSELEAF	You know me, boy.

LOOSELEAF	Excuse me.
HAROLD	One of them is the doctor, whose weapons are compassion, unselfishness, peacefulness-- maudlin concern.
LOOSELEAF	Huh.
HAROLD	He and his love are like a retiarius.  Do you know what a retiarius is?
LOOSELEAF	He's a kind of gladiator who fights with a knife and a net and doesn't wear anything but a jockstrap.
HAROLD	How do you know that?
LOOSELEAF	You told me.
HAROLD	When?
LOOSELEAF	When we were up in the tree so long--with the bats.
HAROLD	Oh.  I'd forgotten.
LOOSELEAF	Fourteen times you told me.  I counted.
HAROLD	Really?
LOOSELEAF	You'd get this funny look in your eyes, and I'd say to myself, "Oh, Jesus--he's going to tell me what a retiarius is again."
HAROLD	Sorry.

LOOSELEAF	Go to the funeral?
HAROLD	Of course!  Not only go to it but go to it in full uniform!  Rent a uniform!
LOOSELEAF	That's against the law, isn't it? I can't wear a uniform anymore.
HAROLD	Wear your uniform and every decoration, and let them despise you, if they dare.
LOOSELEAF	Alice would be absolutely tear-ass.
HAROLD	When I was a naive young recruit in Spain, I used to wonder why soldiers bayoneted oil paintings, shot the noses off of statues and defecated into grand pianos.  I now understand: It was to teach civilians the deepest sort of respect for men in uniform-- uncontrollable fear.  To our women.
LOOSELEAF	I didn't know we had any women left.
HAROLD	The world is teeming with women-- ours to enjoy.
LOOSELEAF	Every time I start thinking like that I get the clap.

LOOSELEAF	I told you the uniform wouldn't help.
HAROLD	It helped more than you know.  Down deep, people were deeply affected.
LOOSELEAF	You keep on saying "deep" and "deeply." I wish something good would happen on the surface sometime.

LOOSELEAF	So, kid--how they hanging?  Or don't you say that to a little kid?
HAROLD	He's a man.  Tell him you're a man.

HAROLD	Of course you'll go!  You're going to fly the helicopter.
LOOSELEAF	I dunno.
HAROLD	You're so low!  Look at that beautiful red meat.  You haven't touched it.
LOOSELEAF	Sorry.  At least you've got a place to come back to.  I don't have a place to come back to anymore.
HAROLD	All the more reason to go to Africa.
LOOSELEAF	I dunno. You know.  I used to really love that Alice. Do you know that?
HAROLD	You know her for what she is now-- garbage.
LOOSELEAF	I dunno.
HAROLD	She was always a rotten wife!  She was against everything manly you ever wanted to do.  He was the most daring test pilot in the country at one time, and his wife made him quit.  She made him become a life insurance salesman instead.

LOOSELEAF	Hi, Penelope.
HAROLD	Shut up, you ninny!  You were never to come here again-- for any reason whatsoever!

HAROLD	Go live in a safe-deposit box--with your things. LOOSELEAF Jesus--I wouldn't want to be married to him.  You know?
HAROLD	What's this?
LOOSELEAF	I wouldn't want to be married to me. We're too crazy.  You know?
HAROLD	In what way, pray tell?
LOOSELEAF	I didn't like that violin thing. That was sad.
HAROLD	Tit for tat--as simple as that.
LOOSELEAF	You never played a violin.
HAROLD	You did?
LOOSELEAF	Yeah.  I practically forgot.  But after you busted that thing, I got to thinking, "Jesus--maybe I'll start the violin again." That didn't just belong to Woodly.  That belonged to everybody.  Maybe he would have sold it to me, and I could have some fun.  After you busted the violin, boy, and Penelope walked out, I thought to myself, "Jesus--who could blame her?"
HAROLD	Maybe it's time you got out.
LOOSELEAF	Me?
HAROLD	You.
LOOSELEAF	Okay.  Okay.
HAROLD	You're an imbecile.
LOOSELEAF	I know you think that.
HAROLD	Everybody thinks that.
LOOSELEAF	Anybody who'd drop an atom bomb on a city has to be pretty dumb.
HAROLD	The one direct, decisive, intelligent act of your life!
LOOSELEAF	I don't think so.  It could have been.
HAROLD	If what?
LOOSELEAF	If I hadn't done it.  If I'd said to myself, "Screw it.  I'm going to let all those people down there live."
HAROLD	They were enemies.  We were at war.
LOOSELEAF	Yeah, Jesus--but wars would be a lot better, I think, if guys would say to themselves sometimes, "Jesus--I'm not going to do that to the enemy.  That's too much." You could have been the manufacturer of that violin there, even though you don't know how to make a violin, just by not busting it up.  I could have been the father of all those people in Nagasaki, and the mother, too, just by not dropping the bomb.  I sent 'em to Heaven instead--and I don't think there is one.
HAROLD	Goodbye, Looseleaf.

SHUTTLE	Hello.
HAROLD	How are you, honeybunch?
SHUTTLE	Is Penelope in?
HAROLD	The posies are for her?
SHUTTLE	I wanted to apologize.
HAROLD	You've come to the right man.
SHUTTLE	I forgot my vacuum cleaner.
HAROLD	I forget mine for years on end.
SHUTTLE	Oh my God--  And you are Looseleaf Harper.

SHUTTLE	I can't get over how you guys are my friends.  Harold Ryan and Looseleaf Harper are my friends.
HAROLD	Our pleasure.
SHUTTLE	Eight years you guys were together-- through thick and thin.
HAROLD	For seven and a half of those years we were heavily drugged--or we would have been home long before now, believe me.  We were saved from starvation by the Lupi-Loopo Indians, who fed us a strange blue soup.
SHUTTLE	Blue soup.
HAROLD	It sapped our will--made us peaceful and unenterprising.  It was a form of chemical castration. We became two more sleepy Indians.

SHUTTLE	Are we really going to find out where the elephants go to die?
HAROLD	I'd rather go to Viet Nam.
SHUTTLE	Would somebody please pass me the catsup?
HAROLD	What you say is, "Pass the fucking catsup."
SHUTTLE	Pass the fucking catsup.

HAROLD	Insurance!
SHUTTLE	You actually sold insurance!

SHUTTLE	What an awful sound!
HAROLD	Get used to it.  Back door, Paul.

HAROLD	It's possible, of course, that you'll die in Africa.
SHUTTLE	I've considered that.
HAROLD	Selling vacuum cleaners isn't the best preparation you could have.
SHUTTLE	I just want one true adventure before I die.
HAROLD	That can be arranged.

HAROLD	Fifty years?
SHUTTLE	You're making a joke.
HAROLD	I'm interested in long-term expectations.
SHUTTLE	It's engineered to last about fifteen years.
HAROLD	Things.  Oh--you silly people and your things.  Things, things, things.

SHUTTLE	If I were married to him, I sure wouldn't walk out.
HAROLD	Never mind the condition of your body and your spirit!  Look after your things, your things!

SHUTTLE	Who's going to fly our helicopter now?
HAROLD	What?
SHUTTLE	We got to get another pilot.
HAROLD	For what?
SHUTTLE	For Africa.
HAROLD	Do you really think that Harold Ryan would go to Africa with a vacuum cleaner salesman?
SHUTTLE	You invited me.
HAROLD	To make an ass of yourself.
SHUTTLE	What went wrong?
HAROLD	We're ahead of schedule, that's all. You're finding out here what you would have found out in Africa-- that you are a rabbit, born to be eaten alive.
SHUTTLE	Gee whiz--
HAROLD	It would have been fun to see you drop your rifle and run the first time an elephant charged us.
SHUTTLE	I wouldn't drop my gun.
HAROLD	You're hollow, like a woman.
SHUTTLE	I'm smarter than Looseleaf.
HAROLD	He can shoot!  He can hold his ground!  He can attack!  You're in your proper profession right now-- sucking up dirt for frumpish housewives, closet drunkards every one.
SHUTTLE	How do you know how I'd act in Africa?
HAROLD	Look how you're acting now!  This is a moment of truth, and you're almost crying.  Slug me!
SHUTTLE	You're my buddy.
HAROLD	Out!  Out!
SHUTTLE	No matter what you say to me, I still think you're the greatest guy I ever knew.
HAROLD	Out!
SHUTTLE	You--you aren't going to have any friends left, if you don't watch out.
HAROLD	Thank God!

PAUL	Anybody home?
HAROLD	As a matter of fact--
PAUL	Sir?
HAROLD	As a matter of fact--I am home.
PAUL	Hello.
HAROLD	Hello.
PAUL	Are you--

HAROLD	You were about to ask a question?
PAUL	Are you--do you--
HAROLD	Ask it!
PAUL	Do you know who Wanda June is?
HAROLD	Life has denied me that thrill.
PAUL	Do you mind if I ask who you are?
HAROLD	Mind?  God, yes, I mind.  I'm your father's friend.  A man claiming to be the family physician let me in a while ago.
PAUL	Dr. Woodly.
HAROLD	Dr. Woodly.  I should make a little list.
PAUL	Is anybody besides you here now?
HAROLD	The doctor was called away on an emergency.  I think it was birth.
PAUL	Where's Mom?
HAROLD	You don't know where your mother is? Does she put on a short skirt and go drinking all night?
PAUL	She went to the fight with Herb Shuttle, I guess.
HAROLD	You think you could find me a pencil and paper?
PAUL	I'll see.

HAROLD	And you've been roaming the streets while your mother is God-knows-where?
PAUL	I was going to a funny movie, but I changed my mind.  If you're depressed, laughing doesn't help much.  When did you know my father?
HAROLD	Man and boy.
PAUL	Everybody says he was so brave.
HAROLD	Even this--"Herb Shuttle", you said?
PAUL	He worships Father.
HAROLD	Ah!  And what sort of man is this worshiper?
PAUL	He's a vacuum cleaner salesman.
HAROLD	I see.  And he came into the apartment one day, to demonstrate his wares, and your mother, as it happened, was charmingly en deshabille--
PAUL	She met him at college.
HAROLD	College!
PAUL	They were in the same creative writing class.
HAROLD	College?
PAUL	She has a master's degree in English literature.
HAROLD	What a pity!  Educating a beautiful woman is like pouring honey into a fine Swiss watch.  Everything stops.  And the doctor?  He worships your father, too?
PAUL	He insults him all the time.
HAROLD	Excellent!
PAUL	What's good about that?
HAROLD	It makes life spicy.
PAUL	He doesn't do it in front of me, but he does it with Mother.  You know what he called Father one time?
HAROLD	No.
PAUL	Harold, the Patron Saint of Taxidermy.
HAROLD	What does he do--of an athletic nature?
PAUL	Nothing.  He plays a violin in a doctors' quartet.
HAROLD	Aha!  He has a brilliant military record, I'm sure.
PAUL	He was a stretcher-bearer in the Korean War.  Were you in a war with Father?
HAROLD	Big ones, little ones, teeny-weeny ones--just and otherwise.
PAUL	Tell me some true stories about Dad.
HAROLD	Dad?  Dad.  The boy wants tales of derring-do. Name a country.
PAUL	England?
HAROLD	Oh hell.
PAUL	Dad was never in England?
HAROLD	Behind a desk for a little while.  A desk!  They had him planning air raids.  A city can't flee like a coward or fight like a man, and the choice between fleeing and fighting was at the core of the life of Harold Ryan.  There was only one thing he enjoyed more than watching someone make that choice, and that was making the choice himself.  Ask about Spain, where he was the youngest soldier in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.  He was a famous sniper.  They called him "La Picadura"--"the sting."
PAUL	The sting.
HAROLD	As in "Death, where is thy sting?" He killed at least fifty men, wounded hundreds more.
PAUL	The sting.
HAROLD	Ask about the time he and I were parachuted into Yugoslavia to join a guerrilla band--in the war against the Nazis.
PAUL	Tell me that.
HAROLD	I saw your father fight Major Siegfried von Konigswald, the Beast of Yugoslavia, hand to hand.
PAUL	Tell me that!  Tell me that!
HAROLD	Hid by day--fought by night.  At sunset one day, your father and I, peering through field glasses, saw a black Mercedes draw up to a village inn.  It was escorted by two motorcyclists and an armored car.  Out of the Mercedes stepped one of the most hateful men in all of history--the Beast of Yugoslavia.
PAUL	Wow.
HAROLD	We blacked our hands and faces.  At midnight we crept out of the forest and into the village.  The name of the village was Mhravitch. Remember that name!
PAUL	Mhravitch.
HAROLD	We came up behind a sentry, and your father slit his throat before he could utter a sound.
PAUL	Uck.
HAROLD	Don't care for cold steel?  A knife is worse than a bullet?
PAUL	I don't know.
HAROLD	The story gets hairier.  Should I stop?
PAUL	Go on.
HAROLD	We caught another Kraut alone in a back lane.  Your father choked him to death with a length of piano wire.  Your father was quite a virtuoso with piano wire.  That's nicer than a knife, isn't it--as long as you don't look at the face afterwards.  The face turns a curious shade of avocado.  I must ask the doctor why that is.  At any rate, we stole into the back of the inn, and, with the permission of the management, we poisoned the wine of six Krauts who were carousing there.
PAUL	Where did you get the poison?
HAROLD	We carried cyanide capsules.  We were supposed to swallow them in case we were captured.  It was your father's opinion that the Krauts needed them more than we did at the time.
PAUL	And one of them was the Beast of Yugoslavia? HAROLD The Beast was upstairs, and he came running downstairs, for his men were making loud farewells and last wills and testaments--editorializing about the hospitality they had received.  And your father said to him in perfect German, which he had learned in the Spanish Civil War, "Major, something tragic seems to have happened to your bodyguard.  I am Harold Ryan, of the United States of America.  You, I believe, are the Beast of Yugoslavia."

HAROLD	Mhravitch.  Remember that name.
PAUL	Mhravitch.
HAROLD	The name will live forever.  It was there that Harold Ryan slew the Beast of Yugoslavia.  Mhravitch.
PAUL	When I grow up, I'm going to go to Mhravitch.
HAROLD	It's rather a disappointment these days.  It isn't there any more.
PAUL	Sir?
HAROLD	The Germans shot everybody who lived there, then leveled it, plowed it, planted turnips and cabbages in the fertile ground. They wished revenge for the slaying of the Beast of Yugoslavia.  To their twisted way of thinking, your father had butchered an Eagle Scout.  Play lots of contact sports?
PAUL	I wanted to go out for football, but Mom was afraid I'd get hurt.
HAROLD	You're supposed to get hurt!
PAUL	Dr. Woodly says he's seen hundreds of children permanently injured by football.  He says that when there's a war, everybody goes but football players.
HAROLD	Does it bother you to have your mother engaged to a man like that?
PAUL	They're not engaged.
HAROLD	He seems to think they are.  He told me that were.
PAUL	Oh no, no, no, no, no.  It can't be. How embarrassing.
HAROLD	You're a very good boy to respond that way.
PAUL	No, no, no, no, no.
HAROLD	I'd like to use the sanitary facilities, if I may.
PAUL	Go ahead.  No, no, no, no.

HAROLD	Yes, wife, it is.  Come here, boy.  Your father is home.
PAUL	Sir?

HAROLD	Wants to fix up her makeup, no doubt.
PAUL	Is Looseleaf Harper alive?
HAROLD	Alive and hale.  He's throwing a little surprise party for his own family.  Is your mother often this unstable?  Penelope!
PAUL	She's a real heavy sleeper sometimes.
HAROLD	Why don't you go to bed--son.
PAUL	I can't take my eyes off you.
HAROLD	Tomorrow's another day. PAUL You know what my English literature teacher said about you?
HAROLD	Can't it keep till morning?
PAUL	She said you were legendary.  I wrote a theme about you, and she said, "Your father is a legendary hero out of the Golden Age of Heroes."
HAROLD	That's nice.  You thank her for me. Go to bed and get lots of sleep, and then you thank her in the morning.
PAUL	Tomorrow's Saturday.  Anyway, she's dead.
HAROLD	Penelope!
PAUL	She was killed in the park two months ago--in the daytime.
HAROLD	Penelope!
PAUL	She was on her way home from a meeting of the African Violet Society, and they got her.
HAROLD	Will you go to bed?
PAUL	Yes sir.  If you can't wake Mom up, I've got double-decker bunks.
HAROLD	Scat!

PAUL	Dad's got jungle fever, Mom. What'll I do?  Mom!
HAROLD	Damn.
PAUL	Mom?

PAUL	Play?
HAROLD	Your mother and I do not wish to be disturbed for three full hours.

PAUL	A hundred dollars!
HAROLD	The smallest thing I've got.
PAUL	Can I get dressed first?
HAROLD	Make it fast.

PAUL	Dad--
HAROLD	Couldn't you have vanished quietly out the back door?
PAUL	A hundred dollars for breakfast?
HAROLD	Leave a tip.

PAUL	What kind of exercise?
HAROLD	Beat the shit out of someone who hates you.

PAUL	I'm a man.
HAROLD	We've got to do something to make this boy's voice change.  I wonder if we couldn't get bull balls somewhere, and fry 'em up.  Still miss your mother?
PAUL	No.
HAROLD	You're free to go to her, if you want.  If you'd rather be a woman and run with the women, just say the word.

PAUL	Dad?
HAROLD	Who was it?
PAUL	It's Mom.

PAUL	Mom?
HAROLD	What's this?

HAROLD	What's this?
PAUL	Nothing.
HAROLD	That's a rifle you have?
PAUL	No.
HAROLD	Of course it is.  Is it loaded?
PAUL	No.
HAROLD	Open the bolt!

HAROLD	That's a cartridge, if I'm not mistaken.  Gunpowder, bullet, cartridge case, and fulminate of mercury percussion cap--all set to go. PAUL I was cleaning it.
HAROLD	Pick up that cartridge and slip it back into the chamber--where it belongs.
PAUL	Gee whiz, Dad--
HAROLD	Welcome to manhood, you little sparrowfart!  Load that gun!
PAUL	Dad--
HAROLD	Too late!  It's man to man now. Protecting your mother from me, are you?  Protect her!`

HAROLD	Then speak, by God!  Can you fight with words?
PAUL	I don't want to fight you.
HAROLD	Get mad!  Tell me you don't like the way I treat your mother!  Tell me you wish I'd never come home!
PAUL	It's your house, Dad.
HAROLD	Everybody simply evaporates!  There are guest issues to be fought out here--or to be argued, at least. The enemy, the champion of all who oppose me, is in East St. Louis with his mother and his aunt!  I have so far done battle with a woman and a child and a violin.

PAUL	I don't know what I hope.  But I don't think you care what I hope, anyway.  You don't know me.  You don't know her, either.  I don't think you know anybody.  You talk to everybody just the same.
HAROLD	I'm talking to you gently now.
PAUL	Yeah.  But it's going to get loud again.

PENELOPE	How do you do.  My name is Penelope Ryan.  This is a simple-minded play about men who enjoy killing--and those who don't.
HAROLD	I am Harold Ryan, her husband.  I have killed perhaps two hundred men in wars of various sorts--as a professional soldier.  I have killed thousands of other animals as well--for sport.

HAROLD	Hamburger Heaven.
PENELOPE	Heaven.

PENELOPE	Can I help you, sir?
HAROLD	I think so, daughter.  How old are you?
PENELOPE	Eighteen--  and a half.
HAROLD	A springbok, an oryx, a gemsbok--a gazelle.
PENELOPE	Sir?
HAROLD	Raw hamburger, please--and a whole onion.  I want to eat the onion like an apple.  Do you understand?
PENELOPE	Yes, sir.  It was a very unusual automobile. It was a Cadillac, but it had water buffalo horns where the bumpers should be.  And what to drink?
HAROLD	What time do you get off work, my child?
PENELOPE	I'm sorry, sir, I'm engaged to be married.  My boyfriend would be mad if I went out with another man.
HAROLD	Did you ever daydream that you would one day meet a friendly millionaire?
PENELOPE	I'm engaged.
HAROLD	Daughter--I love you very much.
PENELOPE	You don't even know me.
HAROLD	You are woman.  I know woman well.
PENELOPE	This is crazy.
HAROLD	Destiny often seems that way. You're going to marry me.
PENELOPE	What do you do for a living?
HAROLD	My parents died in an automobile accident when I was sixteen years old.  They left me a brewery and a baseball team--and other things.  I live for a living.  I've just come back from Kenya--in Africa.  I've been hunting Mau Mau there.
PENELOPE	Some kind of animal?
HAROLD	The pelt is black.  It's a kind of man.

PENELOPE	How do you do?
HAROLD	How do you do, Mrs. Ryan?  I'd heard you were beautiful, and so you are.  Am I intruding here?
PENELOPE	Not at all.
HAROLD	I couldn't help overhearing that you were about to get married again.

HAROLD	What's the matter?
PENELOPE	Give us time.
HAROLD	Like hugging a lamp post.
PENELOPE	Give us time, Harold--to adjust to your being alive.
HAROLD	You were well adjusted to my being dead?
PENELOPE	We adjust to what there is to adjust to.  Perhaps Paul, being young, can adjust to joy or grief immediately.  I hope he can.  I will take a little longer.  I'll be as quick as I can.
HAROLD	What sort of time period do you have in mind?  Half an hour?  An hour?
PENELOPE	I don't know.  This is a new disease to me.
HAROLD	Disease?
PENELOPE	Situation.
HAROLD	This reunion isn't what I imagined it would be.
PENELOPE	A telegram--a phone call might have helped.
HAROLD	Seemed the most honest way to begin life together again--natural, unrehearsed.
PENELOPE	Well--enjoy the natural, honest, unrehearsed result--surgical shock.
HAROLD	You feel that you're behaving as a woman should?
PENELOPE	Every fuse in my nervous system has been blown.

HAROLD	Bluh.
PENELOPE	You'd better get Dr. Woodly.

HAROLD	What's that all about?
PENELOPE	We thought a doctor might help.
HAROLD	Your old beau?
PENELOPE	We thought it was an emergency.
HAROLD	I don't want that chancre mechanic in here.
PENELOPE	He's a very decent man, Harold.
HAROLD	We all are.
PENELOPE	Shouldn't you lie down?
HAROLD	When I'm dead--  or fucking.
PENELOPE	Paul said you were awfully sick.
HAROLD	I was, I was.  It never lasts long.

PENELOPE	You know what I want?  I want you both to be friends.  I know you both, respect you both. You should be friends.
HAROLD	Nothing would please me more.
PENELOPE	Thank God!

PENELOPE	I'm so glad you like each other.  I was so scared, so scared.
HAROLD	Have some.

PENELOPE	Harold!
HAROLD	I could carve a better man out of a banana!
PENELOPE	Please--
HAROLD	You and your damned bedside manner and your damned little black bag full of miracles.  You know who filled that bag for you?  Not Alice-sit-by-the-fires like yourself.  Men with guts filled it, by God--men with guts enough to pay the price for miracles--suffering, ingratitude, loneliness, death--

PENELOPE	He doesn't deserve this!  You don't know him.  It isn't fair!
HAROLD	He thought he could take my place. It is now my privilege to give an unambiguous account of why I don't think he's man enough to do that.

PENELOPE	Awful.  I can't tell you how sorry I am.
HAROLD	Say hello to your mother.
PENELOPE	Do say hello to your mother.

HAROLD	Now that's what I call fun.
PENELOPE	Ghastly, cruel, unnecessary.
HAROLD	You'll get so you enjoy twitting weaklings again.  You used to eat it up.
PENELOPE	I did?
HAROLD	We were one hell of a pair--and we'll be one again.  What we need is a honeymoon.  Let's start right now.
PENELOPE	A trip, you mean?
HAROLD	I had a trip.  We'll honeymoon here.  Go out and play.

PENELOPE	He hasn't had breakfast yet.
HAROLD	Buy yourself breakfast.  There we go.

HAROLD	Honeymoon!  Honeymoon!  Say it: Honeymoon!
PENELOPE	It's so--so stark.
HAROLD	You used to like it stark!
PENELOPE	Just--bang--we have a honeymoon.
HAROLD	I'm not going to strike you.  I am going to be as gentle as pie--as lemon meringue pie.  You mustn't run away now.  This is your loving husband approaching.  I'm your husband.  Society approves!

HAROLD	Now--turn around, if you would.
PENELOPE	Turn around?
HAROLD	I'm not about to introduce to you a jungle novelty.  What I have in mind is massage--a perfectly decent massage.  Turn around, turn around.

HAROLD	I'm going to touch your shoulders very gently now.  You mustn't scream.  So tense, so tense.
PENELOPE	You shouldn't have talked to Norbert that way.
HAROLD	You're thinking with your brain instead of your body.  That's why you're so tense!  Forget Norbert. Relax.  It's body time.
PENELOPE	I have a brain.
HAROLD	We all do.  But now it's body time. Relax.  Ideally, the body of a woman should feel like a hot water bottle filled with Devonshire cream. You feel like a paper bag crammed with curtain rods.  Think of your muscles one by one.  Let them go slack.  Relax.  Let the brain go blank.  Relax.  That's the idea-- that's my girl.  Now the small of the back.  Let those knots over those kidneys unsnarl.

PENELOPE	I have some change!
HAROLD	Ram it up your ass!

PENELOPE	Breakfast?
HAROLD	Scrambled eggs, kippered herring, fried potatoes--and a whole onion. I want to eat the onion like an apple.  Do you understand?

HAROLD	And lots of orange juice--oceans of orange juice.
PENELOPE	Mrs. Wheeler is dead.
HAROLD	All right--bring me a side order of Mrs. Wheeler.  Oh, hell--sit down, Colonel. Penelope will bring you some chow.
PENELOPE	That is the most heartless statement I ever heard pass between human lips.
HAROLD	Which one?
PENELOPE	Bring me a side order of Mrs. Wheeler.
HAROLD	She's up in Heaven now.  She didn't hear.  She is experiencing nothing but pure happiness.  There's nothing nicer than that.  Chow!  Harold Ryan wants chow!
PENELOPE	What a honeymoon.
HAROLD	Honeymoon temporarily canceled.  The boy should still go out and exercise.  I have the impression he never gets any exercise.  He simply bloats himself with Fig Newtons and bakes his brains over steam radiators.
PENELOPE	You're wrong.
HAROLD	Then let me see him go out and get some exercise.  Right now!

HAROLD	Chow, chow, chow!  God damn it-- nutriment!
PENELOPE	We're all going to have to go out for breakfast.  The cook quit yesterday.
HAROLD	You're a woman, aren't you?

HAROLD	Cook, by God!  Cook!  You're the nigger now.
PENELOPE	People don't use that word any more.
HAROLD	Don't lecture me on race relations. I don't have a molecule of prejudice.  I've been in battle with every kind of man there is. I've been in bed with every kind of woman there is--from a Laplander to a Tierra del Fuegian. If I'd ever been to the South Pole, there'd be a hell of a lot of penguins who looked like me.  Cook!
PENELOPE	You leave me so--so without-- without dignity.
HAROLD	People now have dignity when frying eggs?
PENELOPE	They don't have to feel like slaves.
HAROLD	Then go now--and fry with dignity-- sunnyside up.

HAROLD	I should have torn that door off its hinges.  Should have scrogged her ears off.  Should have broken the bed.  What do you want?  Well?
PENELOPE	I--I was wondering--is there anything you shouldn't eat--because of jungle fever?
HAROLD	I could eat a raw baby crocodile.  The way to get your wife back is in bed.  Do such a job on her that she'll be lucky if she can crawl around on all fours.  We're starving.  Do you mind?

HAROLD	Let me guess--breakfast is served?
PENELOPE	No.
HAROLD	What then?
PENELOPE	I do not wish to be scrogged--ever. I never heard that word, but when I heard it, I knew it was one thing I never wanted to have happen to me.
HAROLD	That's what you're supposed to say.
PENELOPE	This is not a coy deception.  I do not want to be scrogged.  I want love.  I want tenderness.
HAROLD	You don't know you want.  That's the way God built you!
PENELOPE	I will not be scrogged.  I remember one time I saw you wrench a hook from the throat of a fish with a pair of pliers, and you promised me that the fish couldn't feel.
HAROLD	It couldn't!
PENELOPE	I'd like to have the expert opinion of the fish--along with yours.
HAROLD	Fish can't feel.
PENELOPE	Well, I can.  Some injuries, spiritual or physical, can be excruciating to me.  I'm not a silly carhop any more.  Maybe you're right about fish. When I was a carhop, I didn't feel much more than a fish would.  But I've been sensitized.  I have ideas now--and solid information.  I know a lot more now--and a lot of it has to do with you.
HAROLD	Such as?...
PENELOPE	The whole concept of heroism--and its sexual roots.
HAROLD	Tell me about its sexual roots.
PENELOPE	It's complicated and I don't want to go into it now, because it's bound to sound insulting--even though nobody means for anybody to be insulted.  It's just the truth.
HAROLD	I like the truth.  I wouldn't be alive today if I weren't one of the biggest fans truth ever had.
PENELOPE	Well--part of it is that heroes basically hate home and never stay there very long, and make awful messes while they're there.
HAROLD	Go on.
PENELOPE	And they have very mixed feelings about women.  They hate them in a way.  One reason they like war so much is that they can capture enemy women and not have to make love to them slowly and gently.  They can scrog them, as you say--  for revenge.
HAROLD	You learned this in some college course?
PENELOPE	I learned a lot of things in college.  Actually--it was Norbert who told me that.
HAROLD	The doctor.
PENELOPE	Yes.
HAROLD	And what is his most cherished possession?
PENELOPE	His most cherished possession?  His violin, I guess.
HAROLD	And he keeps it in his apartment?
PENELOPE	Yes.
HAROLD	And no one's there now?
PENELOPE	I don't think so.
HAROLD	That's too bad.  I would rather have him at home--to see what I'm going to do.
PENELOPE	What are you going to do?
HAROLD	He did his best to destroy my most precious possession, which is the high opinion women have of me.  I'm now going to even that score.  I'm going to break in his door and I'm going to smash his violin.
PENELOPE	No you're not!
HAROLD	Why not?
PENELOPE	Because if you do--I'll leave you. HAROLD  Goodbye.

PENELOPE	I came for my clothes.
HAROLD	Sneaking in the back door.
PENELOPE	I rang.  It seemed like the proper door for a servile, worthless organism to use.
HAROLD	Your clothes are at the city dump by now.  Perhaps you can get a map from the Department of Sanitation.
PENELOPE	I came for Paul as well.
HAROLD	If he wants to go.
PENELOPE	You took him to the funeral, I hear.
HAROLD	He'd never seen a corpse.  He's seen a dozen now.
PENELOPE	A dozen?
HAROLD	It's a big and busy funeral home.
PENELOPE	Did you like it, dear?
HAROLD	It isn't a matter of liking.  It's a matter of getting used to death-- as a perfectly natural thing. Would you mind leaving?  No woman ever walks out on Harold Ryan, and then comes back--for anything.
PENELOPE	Unless she has nerve.
HAROLD	More nerve than the doctor, I must admit.  He hasn't been home for two days.  Has he suddenly lost interest in sleep and color television--and the violin?
PENELOPE	He knows you shattered his violin.
HAROLD	I'm dying to hear of his reaction. The thrill of smashing something isn't in the smashing, but in the owner's reactions.
PENELOPE	He cried.
HAROLD	About a broomstick and a cigar box--and the attenuated intestines of an alley cat.
PENELOPE	Two hundred years old.
HAROLD	He feels awful loss--which was precisely my intention.
PENELOPE	He had hoped that someone would be playing it still--two hundred years from now.
HAROLD	Hope.

HAROLD	Things.
PENELOPE	You feel I've done a dreadful thing--leaving him?

HAROLD	Well--what have we here?  A family.
PENELOPE	Almost a Christmas scene.
HAROLD	Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye.
PENELOPE	Just one favor.
HAROLD	Money?  There's plenty of that. Mildred got the brewery.  You'll probably get the baseball team.
PENELOPE	I want you to tell me that you loved me once.

HAROLD	Testimonials of that sort are--are beyond my range.  I don't do them well.  That's a failing, I know.
PENELOPE	I see.

HAROLD	See how you've upset him.  He was so merry and hale before you came home.
PENELOPE	How unhappy he's going to be--alone in his room.
HAROLD	He'll play with his rifle, I expect. That will cheer him up.
PENELOPE	Rifle?
HAROLD	I bought him a twenty-two yesterday--on the way home from Hamburger Heaven.  And where is the good doctor?  Have you two feathered a love nest somewhere?
PENELOPE	He's in East St. Louis with his mother--visiting an aunt.
HAROLD	Last I heard, his mother was going alone.
PENELOPE	He's afraid of you, Harold.  He knew you'd want to fight him.  He doesn't know anything about fighting.  He hates pain.
HAROLD	And you, a supposedly healthy woman, do not detest him for his cowardice?
PENELOPE	It seems highly intelligent to me.
HAROLD	What kind of a country has this become?  The men wear beads and refuse to fight--and the woman adore them.  America's days of greatness are over.  It has drunk the blue soup.
PENELOPE	Blue soup?
HAROLD	An Indian narcotic we were forced to drink.  It put us in a haze--a honey-colored haze which was lavender around the edge.  We laughed, we sang, we snoozed.  When a bird called, we answered back. Every living thing was our brother or our sister, we thought. Looseleaf stepped on a cockroach six inches long, and we cried.  We had a funeral that went on for five days--for the cockroach!  I sang "Oh Promise Me." Can you imagine? Where the hell did I ever learn the words to "Oh Promise Me"?  Looseleaf delivered a lecture on maintenance procedures for the hydraulic system of a B-36.  All the time we were drinking more blue soup, more blue soup!  Never stopped drinking blue soup.  Blue soup all the time. We'd go out after food in that honey-colored haze, and everything that was edible had a penumbra of lavender.
PENELOPE	Sounds quite beautiful.
HAROLD	Beautiful, you say?  It wasn't life, it wasn't death--it wasn't anything!  Beautiful?  Seven years gone--  like that, like that!  Seven years of silliness and random dreams! Seven years of nothingness, when there could have been so much!
PENELOPE	Like what?
HAROLD	Action!  Interaction!  Give and take!  Challenge and response!

PENELOPE	He's a child!
HAROLD	With an iron penis three feet long. Load it, boy.
PENELOPE	You're begging him to kill you?
HAROLD	If he thinks he's man enough.
PENELOPE	That's really what you want.  You become furious when people won't make you dead.
HAROLD	I'm teaching my son to be a man.
PENELOPE	So he can kill you.  You hate your own life that much.  You beg for a hero to kill you.
HAROLD	I plan to live one hundred years!
PENELOPE	No you don't.
HAROLD	If that's the case--what's to prevent my killing myself?
PENELOPE	Honor, I suppose.
HAROLD	What a handsome word.
PENELOPE	But it's all balled up in your head with death.  The highest honor is death.  When you talk of these animals, one by one, you don't just talk of killing them.  You honored them with death.  Harold--it is not honor to be killed.
HAROLD	If you've lived a good life, fought well--
PENELOPE	It's still just death, the absence of life--no honor at all.  It's worse than the blue soup by far-- that nothingness.  To you, though, it's the honor that crowns them all.
HAROLD	May I continue with the rearing of my son?  Load that gun!

PENELOPE	The old heroes are going to have to get used to this, Harold--the new heroes who refuse to fight. They're trying to save the planet. There's no time for battle, no point to battle anymore.
HAROLD	I feel mocked, insulted, with no sort of satisfaction in prospect. We don't have to fight with steel. I can fight with words.  I'm not an inarticulate ape, you know, who grabs a rock for want of a vocabulary.  Call him up in East St. Louis, Penelope.  Tell him to come here.
PENELOPE	No.
HAROLD	No.

HAROLD	And my son, the only son of Harold Ryan--he's going to grow up to be a vanisher, too?
PENELOPE	I don't know.  I hope he never hunts.  I hope he never kills another human being.
HAROLD	You hope this, too?

PENELOPE	I'm going to call the police.
HAROLD	Don't!

PENELOPE	This is suicide.  Go get the police.
HAROLD	Stop!

PENELOPE	No, we won't.  No matter how it begins, it will end in death. Because it always does.  Isn't that always how it ends, Harold--in death?
HAROLD	There has to be a threat of some sort, nobility of some sort, glamour of some sort, sport of some sort.  These elements are lacking.

PENELOPE	I'm turning off the alarm.  I'm turning off everything.
HAROLD	Ah!  The lady is armed.
PENELOPE	I want you to get out of here, Norbert.  Harold--I want you to sit down in the chair, and not lift a finger until Norbert is gone.
HAROLD	Whoever has the gun, you see, gets to tell everybody else exactly what to do.  It's the American way.
PENELOPE	I mean it!
HAROLD	Then you'd better fix your bayonet, because there aren't any bullets in the gun.
PENELOPE	Where's the bullet?

HAROLD	Help your mother find the bullet.
PENELOPE	There it is.  Give it to me.

PENELOPE	How do I load?
HAROLD	Load it for her.

PENELOPE	All right!  Am I exceedingly dangerous now?
HAROLD	The National Safety Council would be appalled.
PENELOPE	Then listen to me.  You're both disgusting--with your pride, your pride.  I hate you for coming here--like a federal marshal in a western film. I loved you when you stayed away. But here you are now--high noon in the Superbowl!  You fool, you fool.

HAROLD	She's right, Norbert--go home. WOODLY I haven't said all I have to say.
PENELOPE	Out!

HAROLD	Give me that Goddamn thing!  Now get out of here, or I might kill you.  Who knows?
PENELOPE	You've killed women?
HAROLD	Seventeen of them--eleven by accident.  March!  Move!  You, too!

PENELOPE	Norbert--you come, too.  Let him go, Harold.  Let him go.
HAROLD	Of course he can go--if he'll just go down on his hands and knees for a moment--and promise me that he does not find me comical in the least degree.
PENELOPE	Do it, Norbert.

WOODLY	Ooops.
HAROLD	Ooops.
WOODLY	Can I--uh--help you gentlemen?
HAROLD	Gentlemen--that's nice.
WOODLY	You startled me.

HAROLD	The door ws unlocked.  Is it always unlocked?
WOODLY	It's always locked.
HAROLD	But here you are inside, aren't you?
WOODLY	You're--you're old friends of Harold Ryan?
HAROLD	We tried to be.  We tried to be.
WOODLY	He's dead, you know.
HAROLD	Dead!  Such a final word.  Dead!  Did you hear that?

WOODLY	Hello?  Oh--hello, Mother.
HAROLD	Hello, Mother.
WOODLY	...Who?... Did she say how far apart the pains were?... When was that?... Oh dear.
HAROLD	Oh dear.
WOODLY	Call her back--tell her to head for the hospital.  Tell the hospital to expect her.  I'll leave right now.

WOODLY	Look--I'm sorry--I have to go.
HAROLD	We'll miss you so.
WOODLY	Look--this isn't my apartment, and there isn't anybody else here.  Mrs. Ryan won't be home for a while.
HAROLD	Oh, oh, oh--I thought it was your apartment.  You seemed at home here.
WOODLY	I'm a neighbor.  I have the apartment across the hall.  I have to go to the hospital now.  An emergency.

WOODLY	I mean--I can't leave you here. You'll have to go.  I'll tell Mrs. Ryan you were here.  You can come back later.
HAROLD	Ahh--then she's still alive.
WOODLY	She's fine.  Please--
HAROLD	And still Mrs. Harold Ryan?
WOODLY	Will you please go?  An emergency!
HAROLD	She still has just the one child-- the boy?

WOODLY	Yes!  Yes!  The boy!  One boy!
HAROLD	And what, exactly, is your relationship to Mrs. Ryan?
WOODLY	Neighbor!  Doctor!  I live across the hall.
HAROLD	And you come into Mrs. Ryan's apartment as often as you please, looking into various health matters?
WOODLY	Yes!  Please!  You've got to get out right now!

HAROLD	Just her neighbor and doctor? That's all?
WOODLY	And her fiancé!
HAROLD	And her fiancé!  How nice.  I hope you'll be very happy--or is that what one says to the woman?
WOODLY	I've got to run!

HAROLD	You wish the woman good luck, and you tell the man how fortunate he is.  That's how it goes.
WOODLY	I've literally got to run!
HAROLD	I won't try to keep up with you. I'm not as fast on my feet as I once was.

WOODLY	Safe and sound, I see.  Oh--you came back.
HAROLD	I came back.

HAROLD	How was the emergency, Doctor? Profitable, I hope.
WOODLY	A policeman delivered the baby in a taxicab.
HAROLD	Tough luck.  You'll have to split the fee.
WOODLY	Are--are you crying, Penelope?
HAROLD	She's crying because she's so happy.

WOODLY	I feel the same way.  What next?
HAROLD	What next?  You leave promptly, of course.  There is no question as to whose home this is--
WOODLY	None.
HAROLD	Whose son this is, whose wife that is.  A fiancé is the most ridiculous appurtenance this household could have at this time.  Good night.
WOODLY	Good night.

WOODLY	Ah!  You're ambulatory!
HAROLD	What a brilliant diagnosis!

WOODLY	Well now--what seems to be the trouble with the patient today?  A touch of malaria, perhaps?
HAROLD	I know malaria.  Malaria isn't caused by the bites of bats.
WOODLY	You've been bitten by bats?
HAROLD	Colonel Harper and I once shared a treetop with a family of bats. There was a flash flood.  There were piranha fish in the water. That's how Colonel Harper lost his little toe.
WOODLY	You have chills?
HAROLD	Chills, fevers, sweats.  You can describe it and name it after yourself: "the Woodly galloping crud."

HAROLD	You can also describe its cure. I'm eating its cure.
WOODLY	I was going to ask.
HAROLD	Pacqualinincheewa root.
WOODLY	Would you say that again?
HAROLD	Pacqualinincheewa root.  Means "cougar fang." Cures anything but a yellow streak down the back.
WOODLY	I've never heard of it.
HAROLD	Congratulations.  By crossing twenty-eight feet of cockroach- infested carpet, you've become the third white man ever to hear of it.
WOODLY	Are you've seen it work cures?
HAROLD	Hundreds.

HAROLD	Wasn't that sweet of me?
WOODLY	More and more we find ourselves laying aside false pride and looking into the pharmacopoeias of primitive people.  Curare, ephedrine--we've found some amazing things.
HAROLD	We have, have we?
WOODLY	That's an editorial we, of course. I haven't turned up anything personally.
HAROLD	Everything about you is the editorial we.  Take that away from you, and you'd disappear.

WOODLY	Good Lord.
HAROLD	I can just hear the editorial wee- wee-weeing when Looseleaf and I start flying in pacqualinincheewa root.  I can hear the Alice-sit-by- the-fires now: "We discovered it in the Amazon Rain Forest.  Now we cure you with it.  Now we lower our eyes with becoming modesty as we receive heartfelt thanks."

WOODLY	I thought she was a widow.
HAROLD	You were wrong, you quack!

WOODLY	I'm going to have to report you to the Department of Health.
HAROLD	What for?
WOODLY	Quarantine, possibly.  You may be suffering from a loathsome disease which the American people could do without.  Goodbye.

HAROLD	It died for your sins.
WOODLY	This little corpse is intended as a lesson?
HAROLD	There's a certain amount of information there.
WOODLY	Lest we forget how cruel you are.

HAROLD	This is man to man.
WOODLY	It's healer to killer.  Is that the same thing?
HAROLD	What brought you back?
WOODLY	The same hairy, humorless old gods who move you from hither to yon. "Honor, " if you like.
HAROLD	He's a champion after all. WOODLY Of the corpses and cripples you create for our instruction--when all we can learn from them is this: how cruel you are.

HAROLD	There's going to be no bloodshed here.  I know how he'll fight--the only way he can fight: with words. The truth.  Am I correct?
WOODLY	Yes.
HAROLD	I can defeat him with anything from flavored toothpicks to siege howitzers.  But he got it into his little head that he could come here and demolish Harold Ryan with words. The truth!  Correct?
WOODLY	Correct.
HAROLD	What an hallucination!  Oh, dear, dear, dear, dear.  Oh dearie me.
WOODLY	You haven't heard me yet.
HAROLD	You intend to crack my eardrums with your voice?  Will I bleed from my every orifice?  Who will clean up this awful mess?
WOODLY	We'll find out now, won't we?

WOODLY	You're a filthy, rotten bastard.
HAROLD	Oooooo.  That hurt.
WOODLY	You're old--so old.
HAROLD	Now who's being cruel?
WOODLY	A living fossil!  Like the cockroaches and the horseshoe crabs.
HAROLD	We do survive, don't we?  You're going to have to apologize, of course, for calling me a bastard. That's a matter of form--not allowing you or anybody to call me a bastard.  No rush about that. Just remember to apologize sometime soon.

WOODLY	You're a son of a bitch.
HAROLD	Yes--well--uh--that's another one of those statements which more or less automatically requires an apology.  Whenever you feel like it. It's sort of like turning off an alarm clock that's ringing loudly. Your apology turns off the alarm.

WOODLY	I haven't told you, Harold, how comical I think you are.
HAROLD	Comical?

WOODLY	Hands and knees, you say?
HAROLD	And terror, if you don't mind.

HAROLD	You're in one hell of a jam.  You realize that?
WOODLY	I'm high as a kite.
HAROLD	Glands.  You're supposed to be happy when you die.  Call me comical again.
WOODLY	You're a clown.  You're a clown who kills--but you're a clown.
HAROLD	I love you!  Have a cigar!
WOODLY	Evolution has made you a clown-- with a cigar.  Simple butchers like you are obsolete!
HAROLD	I'm to be left behind--in primordial ooze?
WOODLY	If you're at home in the ooze, and nowhere else.
HAROLD	This is going to become very physical.  Are you prepared for that?
WOODLY	You're not such a creature of the ooze that you'd hurt an unarmed man.
HAROLD	I'm an honorable clown?
WOODLY	King Arthur.
HAROLD	You hope.
WOODLY	In any event, I will not beg for mercy.
HAROLD	No quarter asked.  No quarter given.
WOODLY	Don't you laugh even inwardly at the heroic balderdash you spew?
HAROLD	Cut me open.  Find out.
WOODLY	I've struck my blow.
HAROLD	With spittle?
WOODLY	I've poisoned you. HAROLD  Lucretia Borgia?  Something I drank or touched?  You refused a cigar.  That's it! Potassium cyanide in the humidor! Treacherous lover of peace!
WOODLY	I put a poisoned thought in your head.  Even now that poison is seeping into every lobe of your mind.  It's saying, "Obsolete, obsolete, obsolete," and, "Clown, clown, clown."
HAROLD	Poison.
WOODLY	You have a very good mind, or I wouldn't have come back.  That mind is now asking itself, cleverly and fairly, "Is Harold Ryan really a clown?" And the answer is, "Yes."
HAROLD	I--I really must congratulate you. Something is happening in there.
WOODLY	You can never take yourself seriously again!  Look at all the creatures you've protected us from! Did you shoot them on the elevator, as they were on their way up here to eat us alive?
HAROLD	No. WOODLY The magic root you gave me--I had it analyzed.  It was discovered by a Harvard botanist in 1893!  He explored your famous jungle for five years, armed with nothing but kindness, a talent for languages, and a pocketknife.
HAROLD	I see.
WOODLY	You aren't going to hurt me.  You aren't going to hurt anybody any more.  Any violent gesture will seem ridiculous--to yourself!
HAROLD	Don Quixote.
WOODLY	My violin is avenged!
HAROLD	Something seems to have happened to my self-respect.
WOODLY	And the hell with it.  It was so tragically irrelevant, so preposterously misinformed.
HAROLD	The new hero is you.
WOODLY	I hate crowds, and I have no charisma--
HAROLD	You're too modest.
WOODLY	But the new hero will be a man of science and of peace--like me. He'll disarm you, of course.  No more guns, no more guns.
HAROLD	Was I ever of use?
WOODLY	Never.  For when you began to kill for the fun of it, you became the chief source of agony of mankind.

HAROLD	Here.  Finish the job.
WOODLY	I'm utterly satisfied.
HAROLD	You're making a mistake.  Obsolete old carnivores like me are most dangerous when wounded.  You've wounded me.
WOODLY	More clowning!  Don't you see?
HAROLD	We never quit fighting until we're dead.
WOODLY	You'd be killing a friend.  Don't you know how much I like you?
HAROLD	I'm going to shoot you now.
WOODLY	No!
HAROLD	My self-respect is gone--and my soldier's honor with it.  It is now very easy for me to shoot an unarmed man.
WOODLY	New dignity can be yours--as a merciful man.  You can change!
HAROLD	Like the saber-toothed tiger.
WOODLY	Oh God--you're really going to kill me. HAROLD It won't hurt as much as the sting of a bumblebee.  Heaven is very much like Paradise, they say. You'll like it there.
WOODLY	Can I beg for mercy--on my knees?
HAROLD	If you want to be found that way.
WOODLY	What is this thing that kills me?
HAROLD	Man, as man was meant to be--a vengeful ape who murders.  He will soon be extinct.  It's time, it's time.
WOODLY	Don't shoot.
HAROLD	I've enjoyed being man.

WOODLY	No.  No.
HAROLD	Get up.
WOODLY	No.
HAROLD	Have it your way.  We'd both be better off dead now.

HAROLD	Can't do it.
WOODLY	Thank God. HAROLD Crawl home.

WOODLY	Thank you--for my life.
HAROLD	It's trash now, like mine.
WOODLY	New lives begin!
HAROLD	Somewhere in this city.  Not here, not here.  Tell Penelope I loved her--in my clownish way.  And Paul. Tell him to be a healer, by all means.
WOODLY	What are you going to do?
HAROLD	Use the sanitary facilities, if I may.
WOODLY	Leave the rifle here.
HAROLD	I'll put it in Paul's room, where it belongs.
WOODLY	Give me your word of honor that that's all you're going to do.
HAROLD	For what it's worth now, Harold Ryan, the clown, gives his sacred word.

LOOSELEAF	Jesus--I dunno.  You know.  What the heck.  Who knows?
PENELOPE	Colonel Harper, retired now, dropped an atom bomb on Nagasaki during the Second World War, killing seventy-four thousand people in a flash.
LOOSELEAF	I dunno, boy.
PENELOPE	You don't know?
LOOSELEAF	It was a bitch.
PENELOPE	Thank you.  You can leave now.  We'll begin.

PENELOPE	And you went home unannounced, too?
LOOSELEAF	I dunno.  Yeah!  Yeah!  Yeah!  I did.

PENELOPE	Alice got married again.
LOOSELEAF	She did?
PENELOPE	You didn't even find that out?
LOOSELEAF	There was so much going on.
PENELOPE	She married an accountant named Stanley Kestenbaum.
LOOSELEAF	So that's it! "Kestenbaum, Kestenbaum." Everybody was yelling "Kestenbaum, Kestenbaum." I thought it was some foreign language.

PENELOPE	Dead!
LOOSELEAF	Jesus.
PENELOPE	Alice is dead?
LOOSELEAF	No, no--shit no.  Excuse me, Penelope.
PENELOPE	For what?
LOOSELEAF	For saying "shit." Or is that okay now?
PENELOPE	Who's dead?
LOOSELEAF	My mother-in-law.  Fire engines, pulmotors, doctors, cops, coroners--
PENELOPE	What happened?
LOOSELEAF	Well--I walked up to the front door. I was still alive.  Big surprise. I rang the doorbell, and old Mrs. Wheeler answered.  She had her Goddamn knitting.  I said, "Guess who?" She conked right out.
PENELOPE	How horrible.
LOOSELEAF	Yeah--cripes.  I never did get any sense out of Alice.  She found me holding up the old lady, dead as a mackerel.  It was a bitch.  You know--maybe Mrs. Wheeler was going to die then and there anyway, even if I'd been the paper boy.  Maybe not.  I dunno, boy.  That's civilian life for you.  Who knows what kills anybody?

PENELOPE	And you, Colonel?  Let me guess: You don't know.
LOOSELEAF	I dunno.

LOOSELEAF	So long, you guys.
PENELOPE	What will you do, Colonel?
LOOSELEAF	I dunno.  Marry the first whore who's nice to me, I guess.  Get a job in a motorcycle shop.  So long, you guys.

WANDA JUNE	Mr. Ryan just borrowed my birthday cake.  I don't really know him.
MILDRED	Thought you were another wife, maybe.
WANDA JUNE	I'm only ten years old.
MILDRED	That's what he wanted--a ten-year- old wife.  He'd come home from a war or a safari, and he'd wind up talking to the little kids.
WANDA JUNE	Won't you please join our club? Please?
MILDRED	Honey--Alcoholics Anonymous takes all the time I've got--and Harold Ryan is an individual I would rather forget.  He drove me to drink.  He drove his first two wives to drink.

VON KONIGSWALD	Aha!  Hello!  You're Mildred, right?
MILDRED	I heard you were looking for me.
VON KONIGSWALD	You were Harold Ryan's third wife. Right?
MILDRED	Yes.
VON KONIGSWALD	You want to join the Harold Ryan Fan Club?  Wear a pink jacket with a yellow streak up the back?
MILDRED	Do I have to?  Who's the little girl?

VON KONIGSWALD	Because he was cruel?
MILDRED	Premature ejaculation.
VON KONIGSWALD	Ach soooooooooo. MILDRED No grown woman is a fan of premature ejaculation.  Harold would come home trumpeting and roaring.  He would the kick the furniture with his boots, spit into corners and the fireplace.  He would make me presents of stuffed fish and helmets with holes in them. He would tell me that he had now earned the reward that only a woman could give him, and he'd tear off my clothes.  He would carry me into the bedroom, telling me to scream and kick my feet.  That was very important to him.  I did it.  I tried to be a good wife.  He told me to imagine a herd of stampeding water buffalo.  I couldn't do that, but I pretended I did.  It was all over--ten seconds after he'd said the word "buffalo." Then he'd zip up his pants, and go outside, and tell true war stories to the little kids.  Any little kids.
VON KONIGSWALD	That is sad.
MILDRED	Is it?  I have this theory about why men kill each other and break things.
VON KONIGSWALD	Ja?
MILDRED	Never mind.  It's a dumb theory.  I was going to say it was all sexual..but everything is sexual...but alcohol.  Peace.

SHUTTLE	She's my date tonight.  What do you want her to do--bring the poor old jaguars back to life with a bicycle pump?  Bugger off!  Ask Paul what he thinks.  Your mother looks beautiful--right?  Kid?  Doesn't your mother look nice?  Paul?
PAUL	I don't care what she wears.
SHUTTLE	Something's made you sore.
PAUL	Don't worry about it.
SHUTTLE	You bet I'll worry about it.  I said something wrong?
PAUL	It's my father's birthday--that's all.  That's all.  Who cares about that?
SHUTTLE	I had not the slightest inkling.  Why didn't you say so?
PAUL	She doesn't care!  She's not married any more!  She's going to have fun!  I hope you have so much fun you can hardly stand it.  Dr. Woodly--I hope you make up even better jokes about my father than the ones you've said so far.
SHUTTLE	Kid--kid--
PAUL	And I wish you'd quit touching me all the time.  It drives me nuts!
SHUTTLE	What's this?
PAUL	Don't!
SHUTTLE	You sure misunderstood something-- and we'd better get it straight.
PAUL	Explain it to them.  I'm bugging out of here.

PAUL	Don't touch me.  Get out of the way.
SHUTTLE	Men can touch other men, and it doesn't mean a thing.  Haven't you ever seen football players after they've won the Superbowl?

SHUTTLE	I worship your father.  That stuffed alligator your mother gave me--the one he shot?  It's the proudest thing in my apartment.
PAUL	Everybody talks about how rotten kids act.  Grownups can be pretty rotten, too.

PAUL	Thank God!
SHUTTLE	What a relief!

SHUTTLE	That goes double for me.
PAUL	I don't want to live any more.
SHUTTLE	I feel like I want to yell my head off--just yell anything.  Bulllllllllllllll-dickey!
PAUL	I'll kill myself.
SHUTTLE	The wife of Harold Ryan is going to marry a pansy next?  This is the end of Western Civilization as far as I'm concerned.  You must be crazy as a fruitcake.

PAUL	Don't touch me.
SHUTTLE	Wouldn't you rather have your mother marry me than him?
PAUL	No.
SHUTTLE	All my dreams have suddenly collapsed.  We did have a lot of laughs together, Penelope.

PENELOPE	And this is my son, Paul.  He was only four years old when his father disappeared.
PAUL	He's coming back, Mom!  He's the bravest, most wonderful man who ever lived.
PENELOPE	I told you this was a simple-minded play.
PAUL	Maybe he'll come back tonight! It's his birthday.
PENELOPE	I know.
PAUL	Stay home tonight!
PENELOPE	Oh, Paul--
PAUL	You're married!  You've already got a husband!
PENELOPE	He's a ghost!
PAUL	He's alive!
PENELOPE	Not even Mutual of Omaha thinks so anymore.
PAUL	If you have to go out with some guy--can't he be more like Dad?  Herb Shuttle and Norbert Woodly-- can't you do better than those two freaks?
PENELOPE	Thank you, kind sir.
PAUL	A vacuum cleaner salesman and a fairy doctor.
PENELOPE	A what kind of doctor?
PAUL	A fairy--a queer.  Everybody in the building knows he's a queer.
PENELOPE	That's an interesting piece of news.
PAUL	You're the only woman he ever took out.
PENELOPE	Not true.
PAUL	Still lives with his mother.
PENELOPE	You know she has no feet!  You want him to abandon his mother, who has no husband, who has no money of her own, who has no feet?
PAUL	How did she lose her feet?
PENELOPE	In a railroad accident many years ago.
PAUL	I was afraid to ask.
PENELOPE	Norbert was just beginning practice. A real man would have sold her to a catfood company, I suppose.  As far as that goes, J. Edgar Hoover still lives with his mother.
PAUL	I didn't know that.
PENELOPE	A lot of people don't.
PAUL	J. Edgar Hoover plays sports.
PENELOPE	I don't really know.
PAUL	To only exercise Dr. Woodly ever gets is playing the violin and making that stupid peace sign.  Peace.  Peace.  Peace, everybody.

PENELOPE	I hate that thing.
PAUL	It's beautiful.

PENELOPE	Where will you be?
PAUL	Anywhere but here.  I'd just sit here and cry about the way my father's been forgotten.

PAUL	Are you and Dr. Woodly engaged?
PENELOPE	Who have you been talking to?
PAUL	What difference does that make?  Is Dr. Woodly going to be my father now?

PENELOPE	Yes, he is.
PAUL	Aaaaaaaaaaaaaah!

PENELOPE	Is Norbert still here?
PAUL	No.
PENELOPE	Then who flushed the toilet?
PAUL	Father's friend.
PENELOPE	What's his name?
PAUL	Don't know.
PENELOPE	For Heaven's sakes!

PAUL	Mom?
PENELOPE	That man is your father.
PAUL	What?
PENELOPE	There stands the loins from which you've sprung.
PAUL	I don't get it.
PENELOPE	It is you, isn't it, Harold?

PENELOPE	That's why I'm crying.
PAUL	Dr. Woodly?  You know who this is?

PENELOPE	What are his symptoms?
PAUL	Shivers and sweats and groans.  His teeth chatter.  What'll we do?
PENELOPE	What does he say to do?
PAUL	He can hardly talk.

PAUL	Really?
PENELOPE	It is an emergency, isn't it?
PAUL	Yeah.
PENELOPE	Then get him.
PAUL	Okay.

WOODLY	Peace, everybody--Paul, Penelope.
PAUL	You're taking Mom out tonight?
WOODLY	You're going out?

PAUL	We don't have a maid any more.
WOODLY	Oh?

PAUL	Everything stays as it is!
WOODLY	A monument to a man who thought that what the world needed most was more rhinoceros meat.
PAUL	My father!
WOODLY	I apologize.  But you didn't know him, and neither did I.  How's your asthma?
PAUL	Don't worry about it.
WOODLY	How's the fungus around your thumbnail?
PAUL	It's fine!
WOODLY	It's jungle rot!  This room is making everybody sick!  This is your family doctor speaking now.  Here--I brought you something else to hang on your wall, for the sake of variety.

WOODLY	I hate that thing.
PAUL	Keeps fairies away!

PAUL	It came yesterday.  I haven't opened it yet.
WOODLY	Maybe it's supposed to end now. Maybe God wouldn't have it any other way.

WOODLY	I didn't get his name.  A friend of your father?
PAUL	He isn't any friend of Father.
WOODLY	He isn't?
PAUL	He is my father.
WOODLY	No!

PENELOPE	Please--
SHUTTLE	He's not anybody to tell somebody else what to do in a master bedroom.
PENELOPE	I'll get ready, Herb.  I didn't expect you this soon.  Please--won't everybody be nice to everybody else while I'm gone?

SHUTTLE	I keep having this nightmare--that he catches us.
PENELOPE	Doing what?
SHUTTLE	He'd kill me.  He'd be right to kill me, too--the kind of guy he is.
PENELOPE	Or was.  We haven't done anything wrong, you know.
SHUTTLE	He'd assume we had.
PENELOPE	That's something I suppose.
SHUTTLE	All through the day I'm so confident.  That's why I'm such a good salesman, you know?  I have confidence, and I look like I have confidence, and that gives other people confidence.  People laugh sometimes when they find out I'm a vacuum cleaner salesman.  They stop laughing, though, when they find out I made forty-three thousand dollars last year.  I've got six other salesmen working under me, and what they all plug into is my confidence.  That's what charges them up.
PENELOPE	I'm glad.
SHUTTLE	I was captain of the wrestling team at Lehigh University.
PENELOPE	I know.
SHUTTLE	If you want to wrestle, you got Lehigh.  If you want to play tennis, you go to Vanderbilt.
PENELOPE	I don't want to go to Vanderbilt.
SHUTTLE	You don't wrestle if you don't have supreme confidence, and I wrestled. But when I get with you, and I say to myself, "My God--here I am with the wife of Harold Ryan, one of the great heroes of all time--"

PENELOPE	Yes?
SHUTTLE	Something happens to my confidence.
PENELOPE	This conversation took place, incidentally, about three months before Harold was declared legally dead.
SHUTTLE	When Harold is definitely out of the picture, Penelope, when I don't have to worry about doing him wrong or you wrong or Paul wrong.  I'm going to ask you to be my wife.
PENELOPE	I'm touched.
SHUTTLE	That's when I'll get my confidence back.
PENELOPE	I see.
SHUTTLE	If you'll pardon the expression, that's when you'll see the fur and feathers fly.  Good night.
PENELOPE	Good night.

PENELOPE	Coming.
SHUTTLE	Women are always late.  You'll find out.

PENELOPE	Gentlemen!  Is this right for a fight?  It's been so long.
SHUTTLE	Beautiful!  I've never seen that coat.
PENELOPE	Seven jaguars' skins, I'm told. Harold shot every one.  Shall we go?

PENELOPE	What then?
SHUTTLE	We could have had some kind of birthday party for him.  We could have taken Paul to the fight with us.

PENELOPE	Did you see him?
SHUTTLE	Yeah.
PENELOPE	Is he all right?
SHUTTLE	Far as I know.
PENELOPE	Is he coming home?
SHUTTLE	He ditched me.  He started running, and I started running, then he lost me in the park.
PENELOPE	The park!
SHUTTLE	It's dark in there. PENELOPE And that's where he is!
SHUTTLE	I figure he ducked in one place and ducked out another.
PENELOPE	You figure!
SHUTTLE	Then I saw this bakery store that was still open, so I bought a birthday cake.
PENELOPE	A what?
SHUTTLE	For Harold.  When Paul comes home, we can have some birthday cake.
PENELOPE	How nice.
SHUTTLE	They had this cake somebody else hadn't picked up.  It says, "Happy Birthday, Somebody Else."

PENELOPE	Did you talk to Paul?
SHUTTLE	Before he started to run.  He said his father carried a key to this apartment around his neck--and someday we'd all hear the sound of that key in the door.
PENELOPE	We've got to find him.  I want you to show me exactly where you saw him last.  And you stay here, Norbert, in case he comes home.  That's all he said--the thing about the key?
SHUTTLE	He said one other thing.  It wasn't very nice.
PENELOPE	What was it?
SHUTTLE	He told me to take a flying fuck at the moon.

PENELOPE	What's the matter now?
SHUTTLE	We got a birthday cake, kid.  Did you see the cake?

PENELOPE	Possibly.
SHUTTLE	How long has this been going on?
PENELOPE	A week.  We were waiting for the right time to--
SHUTTLE	I feel as though I had been made a perfect chump of.
PENELOPE	I'm sorry.
SHUTTLE	Marry me instead.
PENELOPE	Thank you, Herb.  You're a wonderful man.  You really are. Everybody respects you for what you've done for scouting and the Little League.
SHUTTLE	You're saying no.
PENELOPE	I'm saying no--and thank you.
SHUTTLE	I didn't make my move fast enough. That's it, isn't it?  I was too respectful.
PENELOPE	You were wonderful.
SHUTTLE	What's so wonderful if I lost the sale?  You poor kid.

PENELOPE	It's true.
SHUTTLE	Well--it was nice while it lasted. Thanks for the memories.

PENELOPE	You and Harold are friends?
SHUTTLE	He's the most wonderful guy I ever met, Penelope.  He's the most complicated guy I ever met.  I can't believe it, but he's going to take me to Africa with him.

WOODLY	I am Dr. Norbert Woodly--a physician, a healer.  I find it disgusting and frightening that a killer should be a respected member of society.  Gentleness must replace violence everywhere, or we are doomed.
PENELOPE	Would you like to say something about killing, Colonel?

PENELOPE	Herb Shuttle is taking me to a fight.
WOODLY	Take plenty of cigars.
PENELOPE	We made the date three months ago.
WOODLY	I must take you to an emergency ward sometime--on a Saturday night. That's also fun.  I came to see Selma, as a matter of fact.
PENELOPE	She quit this afternoon.

PENELOPE	The animals made her sneeze and cry too much.
WOODLY	I'm glad somebody finally cried. Every time I come in here and see all this unnecessary death, I want to cry.  I don't cry, of course.  Not manly, you know.  Did she try antihistamines?
PENELOPE	They made her so sleepy she couldn't work.
WOODLY	Throw out all this junk.  Burn it! This room crawls with tropical disease.

PENELOPE	War is not healthy for children and other living things. How lovely.
WOODLY	No doubt Paul thinks it stinks.

WOODLY	Oh no!  Wear a coat of cotton--wear a coat of wool.
PENELOPE	What?
WOODLY	Wear a coat of domestic mink.  For the love of God, though, Penelope, don't lightheartedly advertise that the last of the jaguars died for you.

PENELOPE	I never knew when to hold it--or who to ask, or what to say.
WOODLY	Tonight's the night.

WOODLY	This is very good for us.
PENELOPE	It is?
WOODLY	The wilder Paul is tonight, the calmer he'll be tomorrow.
PENELOPE	As long as he keeps out of the park.
WOODLY	After this explosion, I think, he'll be able to accept the fact that his mother is going to marry again.
PENELOPE	The only thing I ever told him about life was, "Keep out of the park after the sun goes down."
WOODLY	We've got to dump Shuttle.  He brings his vacuum cleaner on dates?
PENELOPE	That's the XKE.
WOODLY	The what?
PENELOPE	It's an experimental model.  He doesn't dare leave it in his car, for fear it will fall into the hands of competition.
WOODLY	What kind of a life is that?
PENELOPE	He told me one time what the proudest moment of his life was. He made Eagle Scout when he was twenty-nine years old.  Oh, Norbert--promise me that Paul has not gone into the park!
WOODLY	If you warned him against it as much as you say, it's almost a certainty.
PENELOPE	No!  Oh no!  Three people murdered in there in the last six weeks! The police won't even go in there any more.
WOODLY	I wish Paul luck.
PENELOPE	It's suicide!
WOODLY	I'd be dead by now if that were the case.
PENELOPE	Meaning?
WOODLY	Every night, Penelope, for the past two years, I've made it a point to walk through the park at midnight.
PENELOPE	Why would you do that?
WOODLY	To show myself how brave I am.  The issue's in doubt, you know--since I'm always for peace--
PENELOPE	I'm amazed.
WOODLY	Me, too.  I know something not even the police know--what's in the park at midnight.  Nothing.  Or, when I'm in there, there's me in there. Fear and nobody and me.
PENELOPE	And maybe Paul.  What about the murderers?  They're in there!
WOODLY	They didn't murder me.
PENELOPE	Paul's only twelve years old.
WOODLY	He can make the sound of human footsteps--which is a terrifying sound.
PENELOPE	We've got to rescue him.
WOODLY	If he is in the park, luck is all that can save him now, and there's plenty of that.
PENELOPE	He's not your son.
WOODLY	No.  But he's going to be.  If he is in the park and he comes out safely on the other side, I can say to him, "You and I are the only men with balls enough to walk through the park at midnight."  On that we can build.
PENELOPE	It's a jungle out there.
WOODLY	That's been said before.
PENELOPE	He'd go to a movie.  I think that's what he'd do.  If I were sure he was in a movie, I could stop worrying.  We could have him paged.

PENELOPE	You know each other?
WOODLY	We met here earlier this evening.
PENELOPE	How neat.  How keen.

WOODLY	Thank you.  Thank you very much.
PENELOPE	I believe in miracles now.

WOODLY	I'm taking her to the airport a few minutes from now.  She's going to East St. Louis--to visit an aunt.
PENELOPE	Tell her to have a nice trip.
WOODLY	Thanks.

PENELOPE	Get out of here.
WOODLY	It's really that bad?

PENELOPE	You fool, you fool.
WOODLY	Oh--look at the poor, crucified violin, would you?

WOODLY	Everything's going to be beautiful.
PENELOPE	You fake!  You're no better than the dumbest general in the Pentagon.  You're not going to beat Harold. You're not going to beat anybody. You're not going to stay here, either--yammering and taunting until you're most gloriously killed. Go home!

PENELOPE	Do it!
WOODLY	Goodbye.

SHUTTLE	Hi kid.  Would you look what the car dragged in.
WOODLY	I'm glad you brought your vacuum cleaner.
SHUTTLE	Is that a fact?
WOODLY	That maid just quit.  The place is a mess.  You can start in the master bedroom.

SHUTTLE	You've got to fight from time to time.
WOODLY	Not true.
SHUTTLE	Or get eaten alive.
WOODLY	That's not true either--or needn't be, unless we make it true.
SHUTTLE	Phooey.
WOODLY	Which we do.  But we can stop doing that.

WOODLY	We simply stop doing that--dropping things on each other, eating each other alive.
SHUTTLE	Penelope!  We're late!

WOODLY	The late Mrs. Harold Ryan.
SHUTTLE	I'm sick of this argument.  I just have one more thing to say: If you elect a President, you support him, no matter what he does.  That's the only way you can have a country!
WOODLY	It's the planet that's in ghastly trouble now and all our brothers and sisters thereon.
SHUTTLE	None of my relatives are Chinese Communists.  Speak for yourself.
WOODLY	Chinese maniacs and Russian maniacs and American maniacs and French maniacs and British maniacs have turned this lovely, moist, nourishing blue-green ball into a doomsday device.  Let a radar set and a computer mistake a hawk or a meteor for a missile, and that's the end of mankind.
SHUTTLE	You can believe that if you want. I talk to guys like you, and I want to commit suicide.  You get that weight-lifting set I sent you?

SHUTTLE	Start with the smallest weights. Every week add a pound or two.
WOODLY	Maybe God has let everybody who ever lived be reborn--so he or she can see how it ends.  Even Pithecanthropus erectus and Australopithecus and Sinanthropus pekensis and the Neanderthalers are back on Earth--to see how it ends. They're all on Times Square--making change for peepshows.  Or recruiting Marines.
SHUTTLE	You ever hear the story about the boy who carried a calf around the barn every day?
WOODLY	He died of a massive rupture.
SHUTTLE	You think you're so funny.  You're not even funny.  Right?  Right?  You don't hurt yourself if you start out slow.
WOODLY	You're preparing him for a career in the slaughterhouses of Dubuque?  Take care of your body, yes!  But don't become a bender of horseshoes and railroad spikes.  Don't become obsessed by your musculature.  Any one of these poor, dead animals here was a thousand times the athlete you can ever hope to be. Their magic was in their muscles. Your magic is in your brains!

SHUTTLE	Kid--kid--
WOODLY	It's good.  Let him go.
SHUTTLE	If he'd just come out for the Little League, the way I asked him, he'd find out we touch all the time--shove each other, slug each other, and just horse around.  I'm going to go get him--
WOODLY	Don't!  Let him have all the privacy he wants.  Let him grieve, let him rage.  There has never been a funeral for his father.

SHUTTLE	If he'd just get into scouting, and camp out some, and see how everybody roughhouses around the fire--
WOODLY	What a beautiful demonstration this is of the utter necessity of rites of passage.
SHUTTLE	I feel like I've been double- crossed.  If you'd just told me it was Harold's birthday--

WOODLY	Minors aren't allowed at fights.
SHUTTLE	Then we'd stay home and eat venison or something, and look through the scrapbooks.  I've got a friend who has a whole freezer full of striped bass and caribou meat.  I'm going to bring that boy back.

WOODLY	Happy Birthday, Wanda June!
SHUTTLE	We can take off the "Wanda June" with a butter knife.

WANDA JUNE	We have this new club up here in Heaven.
VON KONIGSWALD	Yes, we do.
WANDA JUNE	We only have two members so far, but it's growing all the time.
VON KONIGSWALD	We have enough for a shuffleboard team.  In Heaven, shuffleboard is everything.  Hitler plays shuffleboard.
WANDA JUNE	Albert Einstein plays shuffleboard.
VON KONIGSWALD	Mozart plays shuffleboard.
WANDA JUNE	Lewis Carroll, who wrote Alice in Wonderland, plays shuffleboard.
VON KONIGSWALD	Jack the Ripper plays shuffleboard.
WANDA JUNE	Walt Disney, who gave us Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, plays shuffleboard.  Jesus Christ plays shuffleboard.
VON KONIGSWALD	It was almost worth the trip--to find out that Jesus Christ in Heaven was just another guy, playing shuffleboard.  I like his sense of humor, though--you know? He's got a blue-and-gold warm-up jacket he wears.  You know what it says on the back? "Pontius Pilate Athletic Club." Most people don't get it.  Most people think there really is a Pontius Pilate Athletic Club.
WANDA JUNE	We're going to have jackets, aren't we?
VON KONIGSWALD	You bet! "The Harold Ryan Fan Club." Pink, eh?  With a yellow streak up the back.  We got very good tailor shops up here.  They'll make you any kind of uniform, any kind of sweatsuit you want.  Judas Iscariot--he's got this black jacket with a skull and crossbones over the heart.  He walks around all hunched over, and he never looks anybody in the eye, and written on the back of his jacket are the words, "Go take a flying--

ROPER	Hello, guys.
BAFFERT	Hello, Roper. Glad you could join us.

ROPER	They're not usually graduate students.
BAFFERT	SWAT wants to go in.
ROPER	What's the rush? They haven't killed anybody yet this week?

BAFFERT	No -- you can't do that.
ROPER	You got 7 hostages in there, 1 of them's wounded -- We don't know how bad it is -- The guy ripped the phone out -- SWAT said he's got a gun to the head of a female hostage. If SWAT makes entry now, you're gonna lose 1 hostage, maybe 2. I gotta go in. Maybe I can see what's going on in there.
BAFFERT	I don't know.
ROPER	He's never offed anybody. His rap doesn't show any violence.
BAFFERT	Not that we know of.
ROPER	We don't know how much time we have. If I can get in to talk to him -- maybe we won't lose anyone.
BAFFERT	Maybe we can get a throw phone in there.

BAFFERT	Floor seats.
ROPER	You're my hero.
BAFFERT	Dinner's on you.
ROPER	Deal.

BAFFERT	Mind if we make a stop on the way? We busted Frank Antonucci on possession. He gave us a lead on that Polk Street jewelry heist.
ROPER	Phoney Frank? Don't waste your time. He'd tell you his granny was in on the Kennedy assassination if he could dodge a collar.
BAFFERT	I still gotta do it. Wasting time is half my job.
ROPER	Yeah, okay.

BAFFERT	This SWAT guy might be a good idea. He may be able to take a little pressure off you. I worry about you.
ROPER	You worried about me, too? The chief's worried about me. Solis is worried about me. Maybe you guys should start some kind of organization.
BAFFERT	Speaking of which. I saw you talking to Ronnie this morning. Why can't you get it back together with her. You've gotta be out of your mind not to get with that one.
ROPER	It's not me. It's her. She's going out with this baseball player -- Greg Barnett.
BAFFERT	No shit! He's good!
ROPER	Fuck him. He swings at anything in the dirt. I could strike him out.
BAFFERT	Don't give up on her. You're getting to the age when you ought to be thinking about these things.

BAFFERT	Where's the stereo?
ROPER	Fuck the stereo. What's that smell?
BAFFERT	Come on. Just get in. We gotta go.

BAFFERT	Apartment 306.
ROPER	You want me to go up with you?
BAFFERT	Nah, It probably won't turn up anything. I'm just gonna talk to him.
ROPER	Good. I don't want to be late.

BAFFERT	What's the line?
ROPER	It was Warriors plus 6 this morning.
BAFFERT	I'll take half of your action.

KORDA	Who is it?
BAFFERT	It's Lieutenant Sam Baffert from the San Francisco Police Department.

KORDA	What happened? Is there a problem?
BAFFERT	May I come in? I would just like to ask you a couple of questions.

KORDA	Duke Ellington. "Things Ain't What They Used To Be", recorded July 30, 1945.
BAFFERT	Yeah... Yeah... Now I can hear it.

BAFFERT	Where did you find an old recording like that?
KORDA	Used record shop down on Turk Street. I was in there looking for some Robert Johnson.  Memories... Memory Lane or something...
BAFFERT	I've got to stop in there... Mr. Korda, do you know Frank Antonucci?
KORDA	You mean Frank who owns the bakery down the street?

BAFFERT	Could I please have a little water?
KORDA	Of course.

KORDA	Perhaps for his own reasons he entangled me in this... situation.
BAFFERT	This cousin of yours... What's his name?
KORDA	Clarence Teal.

KORDA	You told Antonucci that shit came from me.
CLARENCE	So that we could get the best price. He's got respect for you. He's gonna try to lowball me, Mike.

KORDA	You fucking idiot! Why do you think I use you?... To be a walking advertisement.
CLARENCE	I'm sorry, Mike. I never heard of LaMarra flipping on anyone before. He said he had the cops paid off. Antonucci never flipped on anyone before. He had the cops paid off.
KORDA	Not the fucking cop that showed up at my door!
CLARENCE	What happened, Mike.
KORDA	You don't want to know.

KORDA	God damn it! I still needed to case that fucking store. It's too risky to show my face now.
CLARENCE	I got a couple thousand bucks. You could leave town.
KORDA	Leave town? They're going to know me in fucking Des Moines now!...  They got over ten million in jewels in that place. That's freedom, man. I could go anywhere I want.

KORDA	You gotta do this for me. I'm in here because of you.
CLARENCE	Man, what's this about? Ya know, you were robbing a store. It wasn't personal. It was his job.
KORDA	Fuck you! You know what he did to me?!...

CLARENCE	Don't make do it, Mike.
KORDA	Are you going to turn on me too? Who helped you when you were strung out? Who gave you money? Who bailed you out of jail?
CLARENCE	I won't get away with it.
KORDA	Nobody knows who you are. Make it look like a robbery.

MCCALL	I... I'm Kevin. I 'm here to help you, D... Dave.
DAVE	You can't help me, man.

MCCALL	Who's controlling your mind?
DAVE	Whoa!... The government. They control everybody's mind. You're too fucking stupid to know that?

MCCALL	This has nothing to do with Walter.
DAVE	They want Walter dead!

MCCALL	Tell me what's wrong.
DAVE	Particles, man. I feel them all the time. I feel them in my arms and legs man, that's how they punish me.
MCCALL	How can I help you with the particles?
DAVE	It's not just the particles man, it's the whole fucking machine, this is how they get assassins to operate. It's been this way since the cuban missile crisis.

MCCALL	They have less power over you if you look into my eyes.
DAVE	Huh?

DAVE	Tell my dad.
MCCALL	Tell him what, what do you want me to tell him?
DAVE	Tell my dad I'm sorry about the watch.
MCCALL	I'll tell him. Where does he live. We'll get him on the phone right now.

DAVE	I hate fucking Springfield.
MCCALL	Is that where you're family lives?

EARL	Where's the car?
ROPER	I need to get something straight first.

ROPER	It's my job to see that no one gets killed, Earl... Including you.
EARL	Then where's my FUCKING car!

EARL	Really?
ROPER	Absolutely. Bank robbers are generally your smartest criminals.

ROPER	The Old Guy? What kind of show of faith is that? I want Debbie.
EARL	Am I gettin' the car?
ROPER	You're gettin' the car.

EARL	What?!
ROPER	You want a convertible or hardtop?

ROPER	Manual or automatic?
EARL	Automatic.
ROPER	You got it.

JAIL GUARD #2	Who are you again?
KORDA	Johnny Hawkins. Bail Bonds. I gotta be over at county in fifteen minutes, alright?
JAIL GUARD #2	Johnny who?

JAIL GUARD #2	Hold on a second here.
KORDA	Is there a problem?

JAIL GUARD #2	You signed out twice.
KORDA	I what?
JAIL GUARD #2	Look, why don't you just come on back inside for a second.
KORDA	Wait a minute, lemme see that.

KIMURA	Hi, Roper.
ROPER	Hi, Kimura. Where's the command post?

KIMURA	The suspect came in shortly after the bank opened. Botched robbery. A teller hit the silent alarm. He took seven hostages. Shot one -- the guard. He's still alive. So far he's asked for...
ROPER	...a car.
KIMURA	That's right, and a plane waiting at the airport. If he doesn't...
ROPER	...get 'em, he's going to start shooting hostages in five minutes...
KIMURA	That's right.
ROPER	What's the suspect's name?
KIMURA	Earl.

ROPER	We got a guy who's probably on drugs. He's got a record of 459's and he was busted on possession. But he's never been busted on a major felony. What's his demeanor?
KIMURA	Well he's a little fucking agitated -- he ripped the phone out.
ROPER	I have to go face to face.

ROPER	Anything on Korda so far?
KIMURA	Solis said to keep you clear of this.

ROPER	What do you got on Korda?
KIMURA	We ran a search on relatives. He has a cousin in town -- Clarence Teal. Smalltime thief. Last known address was on Pine Street. He moved out a month ago. We've got a couple leads on him to check out.
ROPER	Did you check out DMV for any vehicles registration?
KIMURA	Being faxed over now.
ROPER	How about the record room for any incident reports? He might be a victim. We can get medical records. Check with burglary detail and see if anyone else knows him, knows his habits.
KIMURA	Roper...
ROPER	And what about bars? We can talk to neighbors to see what bars he frequents.
KIMURA	Roper, we're into it...

KORDA	You don't have to come here.
ROPER	Yes, I do. That way there's no misunderstandings. I need to make sure no one's hurt, then we can take care of business.

KORDA	Alright, Roper. You want to come... come.
ROPER	Good. I won't be armed. We gotta operate on trust here. We're going to wrap this up and have you guys out of here as soon as possible.

KORDA	Are you in charge, Roper?
ROPER	Yep.
KORDA	I want a car. Like a four wheel drive. I want it in perfect condition. I want a uniformed cop to drive it up right here. I want him to leave the engine running and walk to the end of the street. Then we'll come out. I don't want any remote control devices in it. I know all the tricks. If it's not in perfect condition, and I mean if its even low on wiper fluid, I'm going to kill somebody and we're gonna start again.

KORDA	I want a plane waiting at the airport. I'll tell them where I want to go when I get there.
ROPER	Is that all?
KORDA	For now that's all.
ROPER	You'll get it. But, Joe, I want you to do something for me. Let me take a look around inside. Make sure everybody's okay.
KORDA	No. You just do shit for me right now.

ROPER	Joe, I'm doing a lot for you. I think you could give me something to cement the deal... One hostage.
KORDA	I'll give you something.

KORDA	You can't kill me like this.
ROPER	What if you and me got into a struggle... and my gun went off?

KORDA	Open your shirt.
ROPER	I'm not wearing a wire. This is just between you and me.
KORDA	Shut the fuck up and do what I say!

ROPER	Satisfied?
KORDA	Open the bag, dump everything on the table.

ROPER	It's all there.
KORDA	Spread it out.

KORDA	I'm impressed. I didn't think you could do it. What did you have to do, steal them?
ROPER	Yeah.
KORDA	That's not going to look too good on your service record.
ROPER	I'll worry about that. Let's get on with it.

MCCALL	Same here. I've watched you in action. Very impressive.
ROPER	You've got a lot of hard work ahead of you if you want to be a negotiator.
MCCALL	I'm ready to do it.  And I'm going to be here more than two weeks.

ROPER	Don't go reading my lips, man. That's an intrusion. Save that shit for the sniper school. Comprende?
MCCALL	Sorry... Habit.

ROPER	We're already past it, aren't we, Kevin?
MCCALL	If you say so.

ROPER	You ever been in a hostage situation?
MCCALL	Only at the very end.
ROPER	How do you feel after a shooting.
MCCALL	Like it had to be done.

ROPER	It rarely has to be done.
MCCALL	I've rarely shot anyone.
ROPER	SWAT is a lifesaving unit, you know.
MCCALL	I know.
ROPER	Try to remember that.

MCCALL	What's the point of this?
ROPER	A little exercise in lateral thinking. The obvious solution isn't always the only solution... See you tomorrow.

MCCALL	I'm sorry about your friend. I had a friend in SWAT killed. I know how it can be.
ROPER	I appreciate your concern. Let's leave it at that.

ROPER	So, McCall, how come you ended up in San Francisco?
MCCALL	They recruited me. Promised me fast advancement.
ROPER	Recruited you from where?
MCCALL	National Marksman Competition.
ROPER	With your qualifications you must have had a lot of offers. Why here?
MCCALL	Furthest point I could find from New York.
ROPER	You don't like New York?
MCCALL	Spent my whole life there. I just wanted to get out for a while.
ROPER	You'd never been out of New York?
MCCALL	Been to Toronto. My mother was born there.
ROPER	How did you like Toronto?
MCCALL	It was okay.
ROPER	You're a real excitable sort, aren't you?
MCCALL	You caught me on an "up" day.  How about you? How did you end up in San Francisco?
ROPER	I grew up in Oakland... Crossed the Bay Bridge and here I was.  So you're looking for "fast advancement".
MCCALL	Is there something wrong with that?
ROPER	I'm not sure.

ROPER	How are we gonna get him out of there?
MCCALL	We could fill it with water.

MCCALL	Eighty-five percent of domestic disturbances of this nature end in murder/suicide.
ROPER	Not the ones I'm at.

ROPER	Come on. Let's go for a drink.
MCCALL	I don't really like to drink.
ROPER	You have to. It's a tradition.
MCCALL	Well, if I have to, I have to.

ROPER	You got a girlfriend?
MCCALL	Why? You like my ass?

ROPER	You wouldn't want to put a small wager on this, would you?
MCCALL	I don't gamble.

MCCALL	Yeah, I've got a girlfriend.
ROPER	You living together?
MCCALL	She's back in Jersey... going to graduate school.
ROPER	Explain how that works.
MCCALL	She's going to come here when she graduates and then we're gonna get married.
ROPER	She grow up in Livingtston, too?
MCCALL	No, no, no...  She's from Hoboken.
ROPER	Oh, "city girl". Don't you ever long for companionship with her such a long way away in New Jersey?
MCCALL	We see each other every couple of months.
ROPER	Every couple of months, huh?

ROPER	That's a lot of commitment. I admire that.
MCCALL	Do you really?
ROPER	No. Actually I think it's fucking crazy, I don't know if I could do it.
MCCALL	Thanks for clearing that up.  I hear your former girlfriend is going out with Greg Barnett.
ROPER	Where did you hear that?
MCCALL	Around. Barnett's tough competition.
ROPER	Yeah, well that's a sore subject, and therefore out of bounds to a young sprout of a hostage negotiator under my tutelage.

ROPER	Lesson two, "Dead Eye"... should have been lesson one. Never exchange yourself for a hostage.
MCCALL	I think I can handle that one.
ROPER	Yeah, you think so, but it comes up.

ROPER	You think you can learn, McCall?
MCCALL	I think so.

ROPER	First things is, don't say, "What's going on?" Everybody knows what's going on. I come into this situation, I say,  "I'm glad to see nobody's hurt. That's good. I'm here to help you."  Second: You hesitated. Don't hesitate. If you're thinking, talk while you're thinking, or else he's going to think you're plotting. Which you are. If he thinks you're plotting, you're going to make him nervous. You don't want him nervous. Got that?
MCCALL	No.
ROPER	It'll come. Try again.

MCCALL	Tell me what you need.
ROPER	I need you to bring me the scumbag who ran off with my wife so I can cut off his nuts.

MCCALL	I can't do that.
ROPER	Then get out of my face you worthless piece of frogshit.

ROPER	Nah, I just throw that in because I enjoy it.
MCCALL	So what do I say to this guy?
ROPER	You could say something like,  "Tell me what the scumbag's name is. Maybe we can work something out."
MCCALL	What? Bring somebody in so he can cut his nuts off?

ROPER	If you want to be a successful negotiator, you've got to learn to lie.
MCCALL	I'm not good at lying.
ROPER	Get good at it.
MCCALL	It's against my nature.

ROPER	You know the ten commandments?
MCCALL	Yes.
ROPER	What's the first commandment?
MCCALL	Thou shall have no other God before me.

MCCALL	You tell me.
ROPER	Thou shall not kill... You've killed, right?
MCCALL	Yes.
ROPER	Why?
MCCALL	To save lives.
ROPER	So why would you hesitate to lie to save lives?

MCCALL	My name's McCall. I'm unarmed.
ROPER	Okay, stop.

ROPER	What did you see?
MCCALL	A dirtbag behind the counter holding a sawed-off. A Berretta nine millimeter in his belt. A female hostage, red dress, on the floor in front of the cereal display. Male hostage, jeans and blue checked shirt, three feet to her right. Another male hostage, white pants, green shirt, Nikes, laying in front of the magazine rack. A female dirtbag with a gun under her shirt, sitting against the beer cooler, trying to pass herself off as a hostage, and there's a special on toilet-paper, four for a buck twenty-nine.

MCCALL	Why did he do it?
ROPER	Because he knew the little girl had zero chance of survival and his chances would be a little better... We had a plan, but SWAT opened up too early. He got caught in the crossfire.  Let's move on... Notice this. Always use the eyes to keep the connection. It almost like hypnosis. That's the most important thing. Create a connection. You're always on their side...

ROPER	You know why I like the track?
MCCALL	You're a compulsive gambler?

ROPER	See the favorite? Tail up. Washy. He doesn't want to run today. Cross him off... Now the Six looks good. On his toes. Coat shiny. This trainer/jockey combo does well. We can't leave him out.  What do you think?
MCCALL	I have two words for you... Seek help.
ROPER	I have three words for you... Ex-ac- ta.

ROPER	I bought you a four-six exacta box. You owe me twenty bucks.
MCCALL	I do.

ROPER	We need the 4 and 6 to finish to first and second.
MCCALL	Fine.

ROPER	Ronnie... Yeah, so.
MCCALL	Now she's going out with Greg Barnett?
ROPER	So what do you want?... An autograph.
MCCALL	I don't know why she'd pick him over you.

MCCALL	I'm just practicing my lying.
ROPER	Still needs work.
MCCALL	You're right. I'll never be as good a liar as you.

MCCALL	The 6 horse is last.
ROPER	That's okay. That's his style.
MCCALL	To run last?
ROPER	To run late!

MCCALL	The 6 horse is still last.
ROPER	He'll be running at the quarter pole.

MCCALL	They need to run first and second?
ROPER	Yeah, first and second.

MCCALL	COME ON RUSSELL!...  Who the fuck's Russell?!
ROPER	The jockey!
MCCALL	COME ON, RUSSELL!

MCCALL	We won!
ROPER	We lost.
MCCALL	We won.
ROPER	How much you wanna bet?
MCCALL	You want to bet on whether you won your bet? This is getting sick.

MCCALL	How long you been coming here?
ROPER	About six years. My partner took me.
MCCALL	Is it always like this?
ROPER	Occasionally you lose.

ROPER	See this. Solis has me driving the shit-mobile, and he picked this up straight out of impound for fourteen grand. Probably worth thirty.
MCCALL	Police corruption. It's everywhere.

MCCALL	There's your answer. He's smart.
ROPER	He's cutting down the visibility.
MCCALL	And doing a very good job of it.

MCCALL	He's got the girl.
ROPER	Damnit!

MCCALL	What the fuck is going on.
ROPER	I don't know, but I've got to get on there.
MCCALL	You're crazy.
ROPER	Pull up alongside.

ROPER	It might have happened no matter who was up there.
MCCALL	Bullshit! Would it have happened to you?
ROPER	Maybe... There's one thing you have to remember... You don't create the situations. You can only try to save people from them.
MCCALL	I thought I could do it. I was so damn sure of myself. But I didn't know what to say. The words wouldn't come. My mouth turned to mush. You make it look so easy, Roper. But it is not. It's not easy.  It's a different job than looking through the rifle scope.
ROPER	That it is.

MCCALL	How many have you lost?
ROPER	I look at it as how many I've saved. That's the way you've got to look at it.
MCCALL	And what about the ones you don't save?
ROPER	You live with it... and they haunt you. It doesn't leave.
MCCALL	And what if you can't live with it?
ROPER	You've got to decide that for yourself.

ROPER	He's gonna kill her no matter what. If I take him these jewels he's gonna kill me and her.
MCCALL	So what do you want to do?
ROPER	That's a chance I gotta take.
MCCALL	Then we better get moving... But there's no way we can get the jewels out of evidence.

MCCALL	Mare Island is an abandoned shipyard, cranes, high buildings... he'll be in place where he can see everything.  How are we going to get me in there?
ROPER	Good question.

ROPER	McCall, you all right?
MCCALL	I'm okay. Korda... went down the side of the building...
ROPER	Stay put.

ROPER	Roper. Metro Division. Hostage Negotiator. Give me the short version.
OFFICER #1	Husband came home. Found that guy and his wife "in flagrante". Now he's holding her at knife point.
ROPER	Which apartment?

ROPER	Have you evacuated anyone?
OFFICER #1	Only that floor.
ROPER	Is the hostage injured?
OFFICER #1	Don't know. She keeps screaming to stay out. He keeps screaming to stay out. We decided to stay out.
ROPER	Well, there's a good amount of agreement on that.

ROPER	I know how you feel, Ray.
RAYMOND	You don't know shit, and I suggest you leave.

ROPER	I can't leave, Ray. It's part of my negotiator's oath. Once I'm in the room with the hostage, I have to stay.
RAYMOND	You don't want to see what I'm going to do to her.
ROPER	Let me show you something, Ray.

ROPER	Same thing happened to me, man. She cheated on me, but I forgave her. You know why?
RAYMOND	I ain't interested in your life story.
ROPER	Because I was partially to blame. I wasn't around as much as I should have been. I forgot how to love her.
RAYMOND	She's the one to blame. Not me.

ROPER	Ray, think about how she looked when you married her. Think about how happy you were. Don't lose that, man. Don't give up everything.
RAYMOND	What am I giving up? I'm laid off last year. I'm down to my last unemployment check. I'm out on the streets looking for work and this bitch is banging some asshole in my bed.

ROPER	Ray, if you walk out of here with me, I'll get you a job.
RAYMOND	Doing what? Cleaning toilets?
ROPER	I can't guarantee you what it will be. But I swear on my life, I'll find you work.
RAYMOND	And why the fuck would you do that for me?
ROPER	Not for you, Ray. For me. A close friend of mine was killed this week. The way I figure it, I stop you from doin' what you said, I'm one up on body count.
RAYMOND	Who the fuck are you, Mother Teresa?
ROPER	My name's Scott Roper.

ROPER	This baseball player you're going out with...  He's no good for you.
RONNIE	Really?! He's a wonderful guy. He makes two million a year, and he worships me.
ROPER	I worship you.
RONNIE	You worship yourself.
ROPER	Ronnie, forget this what's-his-name.
RONNIE	Greg.
ROPER	Did you know he's already got a bad knee? In another 10 years you're going to be pushing him around in a wheelchair.

RONNIE	You know what I think? I think you only want me now, because I'm with somebody else.
ROPER	Who cares what you think. I want you back and that's all that matters.

ROPER	Let me take you out tomorrow night... Pleeease.
RONNIE	I'm going out with Greg tomorrow.
ROPER	This Greg is really getting in my way.

ROPER	Please. I'm begging you.
RONNIE	Oh, I've got to get a shot of this.

RONNIE	Hey.
ROPER	Hey yourself. Came by to see Troy.
RONNIE	A little late for that, Scottie. He's asleep.  Jack Daniels?
ROPER	I'm not drunk. Yet.
RONNIE	Maybe you should be.
ROPER	You heard.

RONNIE	Yeah. I'm sorry.
ROPER	Can I come in?

ROPER	That a new picture?
RONNIE	About 4 months old. I'm working in a new style.

ROPER	I won't stay long. I had to talk to someone.
RONNIE	You don't usually talk to anyone when you're hurting.
ROPER	It was my fault. I was right downstairs. I should have gone up with him.
RONNIE	Scott, You can't save everyone.
ROPER	I've proved that, didn't I?

ROPER	Oh, hell, forget it. This won't work.
RONNIE	What do you want from me?
ROPER	Something I guess I can't have anymore.
RONNIE	Don't try to make me feel guilty. The whole time we were together, you went out of your way to prove you didn't need me. Now, suddenly, for one night, you need me again. I can't do it. I can't be more than your friend. Because I know what will happen. In a few weeks you'll be back on top, and you'll shut me out just as soon as you don't need me again.
ROPER	You think I didn't need you?
RONNIE	If you did, you never showed it.
ROPER	Ronnie...

ROPER	I wanted to get this out of the way.
RONNIE	You got a bet on the game tonight?
ROPER	As a matter of fact, I do.

RONNIE	It's already started.
ROPER	I was going to catch the last half on TV.

ROPER	That kind with the garlic and the oil that I like so much?
RONNIE	No. The kind from Kraft, with the macaroni and the cheese.
ROPER	I've been craving that stuff all week.
RONNIE	And it's hard to get.

ROPER	What do you think?
RONNIE	Mmm, needs a little something.
ROPER	What are you talking about? This is it. This is the stuff right here.  Well, maybe just a pinch more sugar.
RONNIE	Yeah that's it.
ROPER	Why don't you just stick your finger in and stir it up.
RONNIE	Scottie...

RONNIE	Scottie, remember the day you lost that hostage in union square. You came over that night and we made mad, crazy love. But I didn't even know what happened... 'til I heard it on the news the next morning.
ROPER	It's because I wanted to keep you away from that world.
RONNIE	It's not that world. It's your world. It's part of who you are.
ROPER	Veronica, it's not easy for me... I don't know if I can change overnight. But what I'm telling you is that I want to share everything with you, because I don't ever want to be without you again.

ROPER	What about Greg? What are you gonna tell him?
RONNIE	It's okay. We broke up.
ROPER	When?
RONNIE	Just now.

RONNIE	How's Paco doing?
ROPER	He was going nuts at the park. He met this very attractive poodle. They made plans to meet again next weekend.

ROPER	You like this place?
RONNIE	It's very nice.
ROPER	I guess you realize that there's something special that I want to talk to you about.

RONNIE	There is?
ROPER	For the last week things have been going pretty well between us. I think we've been doing a good job getting intimate and all that stuff...

RONNIE	Yeah?
ROPER	...Let me just show you.

ROPER	How come in those foreign movies the young girl is always with some fat, old guy.
RONNIE	In Europe women find older men very sexy.

ROPER	Korda escaped.
RONNIE	And you think he'll...

RONNIE	I don't think you're old and fat enough for me.
ROPER	Use your imagination.

ROPER	Why don't you come back up with me, Ronnie.
RONNIE	I think I'll stand out here in the sun.

RONNIE	Scottie, Scottie...
ROPER	It's all over, babe, it's all over.

ROPER	Stay here, don't move.
RONNIE	Scottie...
ROPER	Do it!

RONNIE	I've never seen sea so blue. Tahiti is magnificent, Scottie.
ROPER	Yeah, I could get used to this Paradise shit.

RONNIE	Scottie?
ROPER	Hmm?
RONNIE	I've been thinking.

ROPER	Hmm?
RONNIE	Things have been going pretty well between us, haven't they?
ROPER	Yeah.
RONNIE	You've changed you know. I don't think there's anything you can't do once you put your mind to it.

RONNIE	I was just thinking...  There's something special I want to talk to you about.  I think it's time we went to a whole other phase in our relationship.  A deeper level.
ROPER	A deeper level?
RONNIE	That's right. We've got to bare it all. Here and now. 'Cause I think I'm finally ready to go for it...
ROPER	Whoa! Wait a minute, Ronnie. Hold on. I know it's beautiful here. The sun, the sand, the sea and all that nature shit can really get to you. But we've got to keep our perspective here. This place isn't real. This isn't reality.
RONNIE	Scott...
ROPER	I mean I said this trip should be a 'roadtest'.
RONNIE	...the hell are you talking about?
ROPER	I'm talking about... What are you talking about?
RONNIE	I'm talking about me 'n' you stripping down on this beach and gettin' you know... 'naked in Tahiti'.
ROPER	You talkin' about gettin' 'nekked?'  Shit, I thought you were talkin' bout, you know... the "M" word.
RONNIE	You thought I was talking about getting married?!

ROPER	You crazy? With all those people around?
RONNIE	Know what you are?! You're a prude, Roper.
ROPER	The hell I am!
RONNIE	Prude.
ROPER	First you want me to put on one of those skinny ass bathing suits -- tongs or thongs or whatever you call them -- with my butt cheeks wrapped around a piece of dental floss... No way.

TRACK ANNOUNCER	...at the top of the stretch it's Cozy Girl in front with Backtrack coming on... Cozy Girl by a length, Backtrack closing...
ROPER	Come on. Stay up there, Cozy Girl...

TRACK ANNOUNCER	It's Cozy Girl holding on... Cozy Girl and Backtrack...
ROPER	I'm en route. E.T.A. in five.

ROPER	Stay up there, Girl...
TRACK ANNOUNCER	Cozy Girl in front by a neck... Now a head...

ROPER	Where's the damn wire?!
TRACK ANNOUNCER	Here comes the wire... and... Backtrack gets up in the last jump. Cozy girl a very game second.
ROPER	SHIT!

ROPER	Tell him to give me a raise.
SOLIS	He says, "Thank you very much."  I'll discuss it with him right now... Good-bye, Chief.

SOLIS	Roper.
ROPER	What?
SOLIS	Are you going to make this hard for me?
ROPER	Depends. What's up?
SOLIS	There's been some concern about you continuing to work without back-up.
ROPER	Define concern.

SOLIS	What if you die and no one can do what you do as well as you do it?
ROPER	Your concern is heartwarming.
SOLIS	It's been decided that you take on another partner and train him to be able to take over for you.
ROPER	Is that what the guy in the Sunday School suit is doing outside?
SOLIS	His name's Kevin McCall. Every Metro Captain agrees that he's their top sharp-shooter and most likely to succeed.

ROPER	Great, send him to the Marines. This guy's not a negotiator. He'll quit in two weeks.
SOLIS	You let us worry about that.
ROPER	Is there going to be an expression of your appreciation?
SOLIS	What kind of appreciation are we talking about?
ROPER	The financial kind. I figure I'm going to be working extra hours. All sorts of overtime... training sessions... Not to mention the extra stress...
SOLIS	What do you think would be in order?
ROPER	Like ahh... I don't know...  Five thousand dollars.
SOLIS	Okay, I think I could swing that.

ROPER	And a car.
SOLIS	Hey, you just got a five thousand dollar raise. Get a car of your own.
ROPER	You know you've got nothing but cars down there in impound.
SOLIS	Impound isn't a rent-a-car company.
ROPER	The car is part of the deal.
SOLIS	What happened to your Trans Am?

ROPER	Repoed this morning.
SOLIS	I'll provide you with transportation.
ROPER	And even if this doesn't work, I want all the money. These SWAT guys don't have the temperament. They don't have the background...

SOLIS	The chief says to tell you how sorry he is. He knew Sam Baffert was a good man.
ROPER	He said he was just going up to talk to him. He said...  I want to be put on this case.
SOLIS	I can't do that.
ROPER	I want to be put on this case.
SOLIS	You know I can't assign you to this. You're much too close to it. You were much too close to Sam. The department will take care of it.
ROPER	Who's running it?
SOLIS	Roper...
ROPER	Who's running it!
SOLIS	Kimura and Glass will head the investigation.

ROPER	What do we got?
SOLIS	32 minutes ago the silent alarm went off, then the fire alarm. A unit was a block away, and the suspect got trapped inside.
ROPER	Any verification on numbers.
SOLIS	We've only seen and talked to one suspect. He calls himself "Joe". There's two jewelers, two salespeople, the manager, a security guard, and an elderly woman. This particular store is where they do a lot of jewelry making and repair. They have anywhere from 8 to 10 million in raw stones on any given day, so they sure as shit didn't just wander in. They knew what they were coming for.
ROPER	What have you promised them?
SOLIS	Just that I'd talk to my superiors.

ROPER	Are these yours?
SOLIS	Yeah, they are but...
ROPER	Come on!

MANAGER	There seems to be some confusion about your registration. I believe I can find you a place at the Ambassador. Many persons of the Jewish faith find it quite...
AL CAPONE	I ain't no fuckin' kike!
MANAGER	I'm sorry, sir. Our clientele is restricted to White Anglo-Saxons.
AL CAPONE	And I ain't no nigger either!
MANAGER	Sir, we do not use such names at our hotel.

MANAGER	You own a hotel, sir?
AL CAPONE	The Bismark in Chicago. You familiar?

AL CAPONE	What you're sayin' makes a lotta sense. Ya know, if I keep on killin' people like I have, I won't have no more friends left!
LUCIANO	You've got the public upset, Al.
AL CAPONE	But you know I never killed nobody that didn't deserve it.
LUCIANO	When the people get so upset, our politician friends gotta listen.
AL CAPONE	What are ya tellin' me, Charlie?

LUCIANO	We're asking you to go to prison.
AL CAPONE	But I've never served a day.
LUCIANO	If it wasn't important for everybody, we wouldn't ask. We got friends in Philly. They can send you up for a couple months on a weapons charge.
AL CAPONE	Awwh, Charlie.
LUCIANO	Minimum security. You'll have everything but broads.

CHARLIE	So Chicago's been good to ya.
AL CAPONE	I do right by Johnny Torrio and he does right by me.
CHARLIE	Ya still owe me fifty bucks for the train ticket.
AL CAPONE	And a lot more. Can we talk?

CHARLIE	Sure. What's with the brick wall?
AL CAPONE	Since Colosimo bit it, I gotta keep an eye out for his friends.

AL CAPONE	One fuckin' year ago I had ta hit you up for train fare. Now I can buy the fuckin' train. And I ain't even a fuckin' Sicilian!
CHARLIE	But ya got a Boss.
AL CAPONE	Torrio ain't like them guys. He thinks like an American. You'd like him, Charlie. He'd like you.
CHARLIE	Maybe. But he'd still be the Boss.

BOBBY CLOWES	I'm Bobby Clowes. Kansas City.
LUCIANO	Charlie Luciano.
BOBBY CLOWES	You ever been near a meat packing plant? My father makes a couple million per, but the smell in his office is enough to make you puke.
LUCIANO	Got the same problem with my pop -- garlic. Nothin' you can do.
BOBBY CLOWES	The goddamned bastards.
LUCIANO	Tell me about it.

BOBBY CLOWES	I remember reading a poem in college. "Sicily. Poor, noble isle...".
LUCIANO	Poor, yeah.
BOBBY CLOWES	But not you.

LANSKY	We have a commission. If there's a dispute over territory, the commission decides.
BOO-BOO HOFF	Tell me something, Meyer. How can you get up at dawn to walk on the beach if you're on your honeymoon?
LANSKY	The commission don't decide how I spend my honeymoon.
BOO-BOO HOFF	Hey, I ignore my wife too. But on our honeymoon I paid attention.
LANSKY	Boo-Boo.
BOO-BOO HOFF	Not another word.

CAPONE	Up here, Boss.
LUCIANO	That ain't exactly been the lucky spot lately.
CAPONE	But from now on it's Lucky's spot.

LUCIANO	Maybe you better hear what I got to say first.
CAPONE	Whatever you say, Boss.
LUCIANO	No, Al. Whatever we say. We're all Bosses here. We don' need another.

LUCIANO	Why should you be payin' me when we're all equals?
CAPONE	You scare me, Charlie.
LUCIANO	Maybe that's why I'm the Boss.

GAY ORLOVA	Are you frightened?
CHARLIE	Why should I be?

GAY ORLOVA	I had everything. Once.
CHARLIE	So what happened?
GAY ORLOVA	Life knocked me back.
CHARLIE	I came into this world flat on my ass.
GAY ORLOVA	And now you have everything.
CHARLIE	No. Not everything.
GAY ORLOVA	Up down. Down up. It's the same. You see things through both eyes.
CHARLIE	I guess I am. Just a little.
GAY ORLOVA	What do you mean?
CHARLIE	Scared.

CHARLIE	When my money moves, I go with it.
ROTHSTEIN	I trust Mr. Johnson filled you in on the revisions.

ROTHSTEIN	Scotch is a very valuable commodity these days.
CHARLIE	Mr. Rothstein, Can I be frank? You're a gambler, and I know you've had losses. I also know you could sell to Maranzano or Masseria for fifty G's, but nobody sells to those guys once. So if ya really got another buyer, and ya wanna welch, I ain't gonna beef.

CHARLIE	I ain't mad. I ain't even surprised. But I can't let ya fuck me. On the other hand, if ya got needs beyond the thirty-five, I'll advance it to you against our next deal on the same terms.
ROTHSTEIN	Could we step outside?

CHARLIE	I got my partner in there!
ROTHSTEIN	I cannot bear to look at that hideous suit one minute more.

CHARLIE	Their asses are here, but their fuckin' heads are still in Sicily.
ROTHSTEIN	Precisely. We are the true entrepreneurs, and Prohibition is the greatest opportunity we shall ever have. America is begging to be taken like an overripe virgin, but they're still fighting over the crumbs of Little Italy.
CHARLIE	We'll start small. When we got 'em lined up, we increase the supply a bit at a time. Only sell the best stuff. And keep the price high, 'cause ya know how folks hate the taste of cheap booze.
ROTHSTEIN	An intelligent plan, Mr. Luciano, but listen to me well. It can be ruined in a single careless moment. Keep your feet on the ground and your high opinion of yourself under your hat.
CHARLIE	Don't worry. I got friends to take care of that.

CHARLIE	When the stiff's an Irish, the cops take it kinda personal.
SIEGEL	Can't we get a couple whores over?

CHARLIE	Four-twenty-eight.
SIEGEL	What's that divided four ways?

SIEGEL	Tommy Reina. Good pal. Better partner.
CHARLIE	From your mouth ta God's ear.
SIEGEL	He's got a line on the good stuff.

SIEGEL	We could lose the deal!
CHARLIE	If we have to.

DETECTIVE MULLAVEY	They told me you wanted to talk about this Shane business.
FRANK	You havin' any luck findin' out who did him?
DETECTIVE MULLAVEY	Shane was a friend of yours?
FRANK	He was around...
DETECTIVE MULLAVEY	Lad, I'm a busy man. July's always a big month for murder. Fella named Barone turned up just this mornin', throat cut ear to ear.  Black Hand.
FRANK	When you're investigatin', how long ya keep at it?
DETECTIVE MULLAVEY	It consoles the bereaved family ta see the perpetrator take his load of juice. We try to oblige.
FRANK	But if ya can't catch the guys...

FRANK	But Maranzano's got the men and the brains.
LUCIANO	Which is why he doesn't need us.

LUCIANO	Bastard didn't even show.
FRANK	He's hidin'. Word's out Tommy Reina's goin' over ta Maranzano.
LUCIANO	Get word to Maranzano. I want a meet. Alone. On neutral turf.

FRANK	Masseria's confused. He can't figure whether you're workin' for Maranzano, or gettin' ready to kill the bastard. So he's spreadin' the word that you're goin' after Profaci because it happened on his turf. I figure Masseria's gonna try to rub out Profaci, and pin it on us. Then Maranzano will have to kill ya.
LUCIANO	You got men on Profaci's place?
FRANK	We got our boys paintin' the house next door. Around the clock. We're gonna keep old man Profaci alive if it takes twenty coats.

LUCIANO	Masseria's tryin' ta find a way around ya. But his patience won't hold out much longer.
FRANK	How's Bugsy doin'?
LUCIANO	Tommy Reina's hauntin' his dreams. But he'll do his job.

FRANK	Mad Dog Coll's in town on a job.
LUCIANO	Who hired the bastard?
FRANK	Maranzano. Ta ice you.

SIEGEL	How much longer we gotta be shut up in this fuckin' sweatbox?
FRANK	Long as Charlie says.

FRANK	You ain't even a man yet.
SIEGEL	That ain't what your mama said.

FRANK	Where'd ya get this funny ravioli?
SIEGEL	Ya ignorant Guinea, it's kreplach.

FRANK	No disrespect, Tommy, but why would Mr. Arnold Rothstein wanna do business with bums like us?
SIEGEL	Why ya always gotta go lookin' for a gift in the mouth of the horse?

FRANK	I think Maranzano's talkin' a hell of a deal.
SIEGEL	Sure, Frankie. Fuck me. Fuck Meyer. Fuck Arnold Rothstein who's made us all rich. All so you can be an fuckin' honorary Sicilian!
FRANK	Does Maranzano have to kiss you on the lips before you'll take his goddamn money?
SIEGEL	If he's gonna fuck me up the ass!

SIEGEL	The deal's too good, Frankie
FRANK	What are ya thinkin', Charlie?

LANSKY	A hundred-seven bucks too much. Any kid who drops an extra dime is gonna be talkin' to Moliari.
FRANK	Ya mean we're so rich we're broke?

FRANK	Well...
LANSKY	Mr. Costello handles our business with the government agencies.
FRANK	That's it.

FRANK	I'm sorry, but I sleep better when I know I'm with the winning side.
LANSKY	We're gonna be the winning side. It's like Rothstein said about that guy in Austria. We're gonna use Maranzano and Masseria. Let 'em knock each other bloody. And then, when everybody's screamin' for peace, we step in to make it. What they're fight in' over, everybody will beg us to take.
FRANK	I thought we just wanted to be left alone to run our business.

GAY ORLOVA	Inside, they were talking of you.
LUCIANO	I can just imagine.
GAY ORLOVA	No. They envy you.
LUCIANO	For being a bootlegger?
GAY ORLOVA	For being a man.

LUCIANO	You here with Bobby?
GAY ORLOVA	No. I'm here with you.

LUCIANO	What's the matter?
GAY ORLOVA	I must be going.

LUCIANO	Come on. It's Christmas. At least stay for breakfast.
GAY ORLOVA	I'm already late.
LUCIANO	For what?

LUCIANO	Luciano.
GAY ORLOVA	I was calling yesterday.
LUCIANO	Something came up.
GAY ORLOVA	I needed to see you again.
LUCIANO	Same here.
GAY ORLOVA	You're sure?

LUCIANO	Why do you bother with perfume when you smell like this?
GAY ORLOVA	It's a mask.
LUCIANO	You got something to hide?
GAY ORLOVA	It's too late.
LUCIANO	Have you thought about this?
GAY ORLOVA	Why? You're the innocent one.
LUCIANO	Guess I'm too confused to think.

GAY ORLOVA	You could have stopped him.
LUCIANO	Ya never tell a guy about a broad.
GAY ORLOVA	So you all make the same mistakes?
LUCIANO	Gives us something in common.

GAY ORLOVA	I booked passage to London.
LUCIANO	London?
GAY ORLOVA	My friends have a country house we can use for a while.

LUCIANO	If I look weak now, it's over.
GAY ORLOVA	I'm very sorry... I didn't...
LUCIANO	Oh, God. Don't start actin' like a fuckin' wife on me.

LUCIANO	A lot of shit came out of me in the hospital. I'm sorry you got hit by it.
GAY ORLOVA	You must be feeling better, if you're looking for sex again.

GAY ORLOVA	Would it be painful for you?
LUCIANO	It always is.

GAY ORLOVA	Charlie?
LUCIANO	I'm doin' business here!
GAY ORLOVA	But there's...

GAY ORLOVA	I'm gonna lose you, Charlie.
LUCIANO	It'll all be over tomorrow. No more wars. No more killin'. Just livin' normal like everybody else.  You'll be stuck with me for good.

JOE PROFACI	Charlie!
LUCIANO	I do this for you, and you'll leave me and my guys alone. Be the fuckin' Boss of all the other Bosses, but we are gonna be our own Bosses.

JOE PROFACI	Come on, Charlie. We gotta have a top guy. Otherwise these wars ain't never gonna stop.
LUCIANO	As long as ya got one top Boss, somebody else's always gonna be looking to knock him off. And that's war on top of war.
JOE PROFACI	Who'll make the rules?
LUCIANO	We'll make 'em, and we'll enforce 'em. All of us. Together. We all get one vote. Includin' me.
JOE PROFACI	Charlie, I'm from the old country, and these American ways get me sometimes confused. You tellin' us you refuse the title of Boss of All the Bosses?
LUCIANO	I don't care what anybody calls me, Joe. Long as it ain't to dirty. And if you fellas get together every year and say, "Charlie, we still want you to run things for us", I ain't gonna insult ya by sayin' no.

JOE PROFACI	Julius Caesar never took no vote.
LUCIANO	And maybe that's why he ended up dead in the streets of Rome.

LUCIANO	You fellas got names?
LANSKY	Lansky. Meyer Lansky. And that's Bugsy Siegel ya got there.

LUCIANO	Meyer just finished the books.
LANSKY	A million bucks. In the last six months.

LANSKY	Bugsy, you and I don't need to be in business with Maranzano. We got more jobs than we can handle. That's not the problem.
LUCIANO	So what is the problem?
LANSKY	The minute we sell out to Maranzano, that bastard is gonna have you knocked off.

LANSKY	We'll figure out something.
LUCIANO	I'm supposed to be at my old man's for Christmas dinner at eight.

LUCIANO	At least Masseria plays by the rules. Maranzano thinks he's God, and the rules don't apply.
LANSKY	Without us, Masseria don't stand a chance, and he knows it.

LUCIANO	Meyer.
LANSKY	It's nothin'. I'm gettin' married.
LUCIANO	Married? To Anna?  You ain't got her in trouble?
LANSKY	No. We ain't even...
LUCIANO	Well, good. Woman like that you don't have to keep an eye on.
LANSKY	Guess I'm not a single type guy.
LUCIANO	Whatta ya mean? It's great!

LANSKY	We're going to Atlantic City for the honeymoon.
LUCIANO	I'll talk to Nucky. Get you set up like the fuckin' Prince of Wales.
LANSKY	I been thinkin'...
LUCIANO	Good. 'Cause every time you start thinkin', we end up makin' money.
LANSKY	We need to put together a meet for the whole country. We all got the same problems. We could talk. Meet the guys we don't know. Lift a few with the guys we do.
LUCIANO	Like a party for all our friends.
LANSKY	Italians, Jews, Irish. One big party. Course, some guys don't get along.

LUCIANO	Like Don Maranzano.
LANSKY	And if we don't invite Maranzano, we can't invite Masseria. Guys don't wanna be choosin' sides.
LUCIANO	I'll handle the Boss.
LANSKY	So we end up with everybody but the two Bosses, at our meet. We ain't sayin' we're the leaders, but we're leadin'.
LUCIANO	How soon can we pull this off?
LANSKY	I'm gettin' married in six weeks. I'll already be in Atlantic City which is probably the best place to do it anyway.

LUCIANO	Your honeymoon, Meyer?
LANSKY	Might as well put the time to use.

LUCIANO	After all this time I'd think you'd know me better, Meyer.
LANSKY	It's not myself I'm worried about.
LUCIANO	I'll do fine.

LANSKY	You're getting' 10 cc's
LUCIANO	I told you twenty!

LUCIANO	You bastards, I said twenty!
LANSKY	It'll just be a few minutes.
LUCIANO	I NEED THE TWENTY!

LANSKY	Tommy Reina's gone over to Maranzano, but so far Masseria ain't lifted a finger,
LUCIANO	The fat man's scared. Scared of us, and scared without us. Same with Maranzano. We gotta get their minds back on each other. This fuckin' peace is killin' us.
LANSKY	We can get the war started tomorrow, but it won't be pretty.
LUCIANO	Who?
LANSKY	Tommy Reina.

LUCIANO	Meyer, ain't anybody ever told you ya look more like a bookkeeper than a fuckin' mobster?
LANSKY	What's your problem?
LUCIANO	It's just that Maranzano's the only bastard I ever heard brag about gettin' audited by the IRS. He came out clean, so he thinks his shit don't stink.
LANSKY	Is there a fuckin' point comin' up anytime soon?
LUCIANO	Seein' he loved the experience so much, I think we outta give him the pleasure again.

LANSKY	Yeah. So who the fuck does?
SIEGEL	Come on. Tell us, Shitface.

LANSKY	Come off it, Bugs.
SIEGEL	Come off it, Bugs.
LANSKY	Ben-jamin.

LANSKY	We got exactly two choices, Maranzano or Masseria.
SIEGEL	They don't give a shit about us!

SIEGEL	What you mean? Tommy ain't done nothin'.
LANSKY	Maranzano will think Masseria ordered the hit, and won't have no choice but to start the war.
SIEGEL	Why's it gotta be Tommy!
LANSKY	Masseria won't have any choice but to trust you. And as long as we keep the Boss alive, Maranzano can't win without you.

LANSKY	We're gonna change it, Bugs. Once we get rid of the Dons, the Commission's gonna rule. No more wars. No more vendettas. No more Boss of All the Bosses.
SIEGEL	Yeah. And no more Tommy Reina.

LUCIANO	If ever I need a Boss, Joe.
MASSERIA	Yeah. Yeah. I bet ya feed Maranzano that same line.

MASSERIA	I like that.
LUCIANO	Whatta ya mean, Boss?
MASSERIA	Ya piss like a man.

MASSERIA	I'm glad ya come.
LUCIANO	What's with the banquet? This is supposed to be a private meet.
MASSERIA	It's only us and Sonny. Hey, Sonny. Come on out.

MASSERIA	You boys carryin' pieces?
LUCIANO	You tryin' ta tell me something? I don't come to a meet with a weapon unless it's with an enemy.
MASSERIA	See if these two are my friends.

MASSERIA	You're a smart boy, Charlie, but there's somethin' you ain't learned yet. A man needs a family.
LUCIANO	I know. When the storm hits, it don't pay to be caught outside.
MASSERIA	I got a place for you. In my family... or in the cemetery.
LUCIANO	Never threaten me, Boss.

MASSERIA	This business is about taking risks.
LUCIANO	Calculated risks. But Boss, this one don't calculate.

MASSERIA	Tommy tells me that Capone's coming in from Chicago.
LUCIANO	He's trying to make it.
MASSERIA	He'll think something's wrong I ain't there.
LUCIANO	He'll know you were smart enough to stay away, Boss.
MASSERIA	What the fuck does that mean?
LUCIANO	You know that if you come, we gotta invite Maranzano.
MASSERIA	So fuck him. I don't care anymore. Let him come.
LUCIANO	So he can talk to all the families behind your back? Maybe have his own meet at 3:00 AM under the goddamn boardwalk? No. You're too smart for a sucker play.

LUCIANO	Where we headed?
MASSERIA	Wassa matter, Mr. Big Shot. Don't have time for my business no more?
LUCIANO	Boss, I got all the time you need.
MASSERIA	I know about you.

MASSERIA	And what went on your little party in Atlantic City. I got ears.
LUCIANO	That little party's gonna make you a lotta money.
MASSERIA	MONEY DON'T MEAN SHIT!
LUCIANO	Didn't know you felt that way.

MASSERIA	You and Vito are gonna pull that payroll job. Right now.
LUCIANO	You gotta plan these things.
MASSERIA	And I got it all planned.

LUCIANO	If I wanted ta kill ya, I woulda done it long ago. It's not like you ain't given me reason.
MASSERIA	I'm still the Boss of All the Bosses! And you'll do what I say!
LUCIANO	So tell me when I ain't done it.
MASSERIA	How can I trust you when you look at me like that?
LUCIANO	You got no fuckin' choice. You might be able to stay alive, but you're never gonna win the war from these fuckin' rat holes.
MASSERIA	Tell me, Charlie. Please.
LUCIANO	Why should I go against you, Boss? Nobody can handle this business like you. Maranzano'll never know the crap that you forget. He's got no business bein' Boss. The idea makes me wanna puke. You're the Boss, an it's gonna stay that way.

MASSERIA	What are ya thinkin'?
LUCIANO	Joe Profaci. Carlo Gambino. Vinnie Mangano. Joe Bananas. They all gotta die.
MASSERIA	You can't fuck with them. They're heads of families!
LUCIANO	They're friends of our enemy.
MASSERIA	Take one of 'em out, and they'll all line up against us.
LUCIANO	Not if they all die at once.

LUCIANO	Every successor will owe his loyalty to us. Together we take out Maranzano, and each family gets a piece of his operation.
MASSERIA	A mother-fuckin' peace conference.

LUCIANO	We gotta talk in private. I got a friend in Coney Island who's gonna open his restaurant just for us.
MASSERIA	But that's an hour's drive.
LUCIANO	Lobster Fra Diavolo. Spaghetti with red clam sauce. Antipasto. And pastry that'll make you wanna go home and slap your sweet mama.

LUCIANO	Ya did good. I ain't seen the Boss so happy in weeks.
MASSERIA	Look at this boy. He hardly eats. Like that fella killed Caesar.

LUCIANO	When ya got all that blood workin' in your belly, it ain't upstairs where it needs to be.
MASSERIA	The kid just called me stupid.
LUCIANO	Not stupid. Fat.
MASSERIA	Shit. When I was comin' up, bein' fat meant ya had somethin' ta eat. Guy looked like you, people felt sorry for 'em. Right, Gerardo?

LUCIANO	Sure. But ya got a deck a cards? I wanna play some Klob.
MASSERIA	Come on, Charlie. We got business.
LUCIANO	Couple hands. No harm in it.

LUCIANO	One move pardner, and you're a dead man.
MASSERIA	You can't kill me. You gave your word, Charlie.
LUCIANO	So? I'll get Bugs ta do it.

LUCIANO	Don Maranzano. Welcome.
MARANZANO	I've heard so much about this club of yours. I had to come and see.
LUCIANO	Good liquor draws a good crowd.
MARANZANO	I must know more of you, my son.
LUCIANO	Not a lot ta know.

MARANZANO	Then perhaps you need to know me.
LUCIANO	Don, I'd be honored.

MARANZANO	Salvatore. My young Caesar. First me, Sallie. Then you.
LUCIANO	The name's Charlie.

MARANZANO	Mussolini is raping Sicily like every Roman before him. So our brothers are coming to America. Soldiers willing to fight and die. Men who know the meaning of honor.
LUCIANO	Don, you talk about honor, but you mean vendetta. Killin' an' more killin' until nobody can remember how it all started.

MARANZANO	And how many soldiers do you have?
LUCIANO	I've got friends.
MARANZANO	I have six hundred. Soldiers. And more every week off the boat.
LUCIANO	An' Masseria's got seven hundred.

MARANZANO	He's an animal!
LUCIANO	He's the Boss of all the Bosses, and I respect him.

MARANZANO	The Internal Revenue came to my offices. I turned over all my ledgers. They found nothing. Charlie, I am a businessman.
LUCIANO	Sittin' around gives me the piles. You got a proposition?

MARANZANO	We combine everything. You are my second in command.
LUCIANO	What about the share.
MARANZANO	You get fifteen percent.
LUCIANO	I got partners.
MARANZANO	Your Calabrian friend, I will accept. At least Costello eats pasta like us.
LUCIANO	And the Jews?
MARANZANO	Share with them as you wish. Do business with them on your own. But no filthy Jew will ever be a brother to me.

MARANZANO	Tell me, my son. Why did you go with Giuseppe? He's not our kind.
LUCIANO	I found that out.
MARANZANO	We learn from life.
LUCIANO	That's why I'm here.
MARANZANO	Coming with me will be a delicate matter. We will work it out. But Charlie...

MARANZANO	Conditions have changed. Some people have become too powerful.
LUCIANO	I'll take care of the Boss.

MARANZANO	If you give him the chance, Lansky will betray you like Judas.
LUCIANO	I don't fuck my partners.
MARANZANO	No worry, Charlie. I will kill them for you. No one will know.

MARANZANO	At first, it will hurt you. But you will come to understand and we will be strong together.
LUCIANO	You're fuckin' crazy. You're all fuckin' crazy!

MARANZANO	Even the beasts of the earth know who rightfully reigns.
LUCIANO	They do what I tell 'em.
MARANZANO	Salvatore. Always holding himself above.
LUCIANO	You and me both. Sal-va-to-re.

MARANZANO	We must be friends, Charlie.
LUCIANO	Keep my terms and I won't be your enemy.
MARANZANO	The terms will be mine.
LUCIANO	The guy doin' the job names the price. If you don't like it, you can kill Masseria yourself.
MARANZANO	I will be the Boss of All Bosses.
LUCIANO	What makes you think I give a damn about that Sicilian crap?

LUCIANO	Tell it to the Calabrian. Tell it to the Jews.
MARANZANO	You disrespect our tradition.
LUCIANO	Boss, we got our own tradition. We call it treatin' your friends right, and not bein' a pig for every scrap of glory.

LUCIANO	Forget it. That's past.
MARANZANO	No matter what you say to me Salvatore, you are my bambino.

ROTHSTEIN	Why didn't you tell me that Maranzano had made you an offer?
LUCIANO	I turned him down flat.

ROTHSTEIN	And if I had known, I would have warned you to expect this. We could have prepared.
LUCIANO	Masseria's been after me too.
ROTHSTEIN	Thank you for keeping me informed.
LUCIANO	We were overdue to get hit.
ROTHSTEIN	You think this is a coincidence? Next week half your customers will be buying their Scotch, our Scotch, from Maranzano. In a month, he'll be in Scotland talking to my distillers, because you can't move product. I'll be out of business, and you'll be working for Maranzano.
LUCIANO	We can operate around these guys.
ROTHSTEIN	Not by scurrying around like a puppies in a roomful of elephants.
LUCIANO	Okay. I'm listening.
ROTHSTEIN	A hundred years ago Austria was run by a prince named Metternich. Austria was weak, and it's neighbors were strong. But they were ruled by passionate men, while Metternich was ruthless and brilliant. If one country got too strong, he rallied an alliance against it. He would lead all of Europe to the brink of war, then bring the enemies together and forge the peace.

ROTHSTEIN	Strategy.
LUCIANO	Talk English. Okay? I did lousy at school.
ROTHSTEIN	The Big Picture.
LUCIANO	That's just what I'm sick of. Everybody lookin' ta knock somebody off! Greedy for what you got. A bunch of fuckin' hogs at the trough.
ROTHSTEIN	So change it.

ROTHSTEIN	Bring order out of chaos. If you lead... they'll follow.
LUCIANO	And what do you want out of this?
ROTHSTEIN	A peaceful and prosperous retirement.

SIEGEL	Know somethin'? This stuff's just kick-the-can on ponies.
LUCIANO	Shuddup.
SIEGEL	Wanna know what I think?
LUCIANO	Spare us.
SIEGEL	I think these rich shits -- no offense Bobby -- are so dead below the waist that they gotta ride around all day swingin' at each other ta get their broads hot.

LUCIANO	Those fucks can't leave each other alone. Maranzano and Masseria ain't gonna be satisfied until one of 'em starts a war.
SIEGEL	Let 'em kill each other off! Why should we care?
LUCIANO	There won't be any way to stay out of it.

SIEGEL	Where's the stiff?
LUCIANO	Come on. Be polite.

SIEGEL	Sorry, Charlie. I gotta get my Johnson worked tonight.
LUCIANO	Jesus.
SIEGEL	Hell. It's been four days!

LUCIANO	Forget it.
SIEGEL	Fuck 'em.

LUCIANO	Johnson's still on board. Even Maranzano won't screw with Nucky in Atlantic City. But everywhere else, we got nothing but problems.
SIEGEL	I'll knock 'em in, Charlie. I can do it. Blow his fuckin' head off. Get rid of the bastard for good.
LUCIANO	You wouldn't live out the week.

LUCIANO	Masseria's scared. He might make our deal.
SIEGEL	We can't sell out to those guys. They ain't businessmen!

SIEGEL	So we're gonna knock 'em both off?
LUCIANO	If it comes to that. Yeah.

SIEGEL	Maranzano wants you dead.
LUCIANO	Yeah. But he needs me alive.

SIEGEL	Everybody's talkin' about ya, Charlie. First time anybody ever got took for a ride and lived.
LUCIANO	Guess I'm just lucky.
SIEGEL	That's just what they're calling ya pal. Lucky Luciano.

SIEGEL	I'm a hard guy. I done more jobs than alla you combined. And I never said no. Not once. But dammit I don't understand why the hell we gotta kill our friends!
LUCIANO	Because the world ain't big enough for the Dons. So we gotta choose between our friends and ourselves. It ain't the way I'd make the world, but that's the way it is.

MARANZANO	Yes?
MAD DOG COLL	I'm comin' for my twenty thousand.
MARANZANO	Luciano is dead?
MAD DOG COLL	Open a window. Every newsboy in town's screamin' about it.

MAD DOG COLL	What a cozy little scene.
MARANZANO	Kill them! Kill them!
MAD DOG COLL	What's it worth to ya, Boss?
MARANZANO	Anything!
MAD DOG COLL	Anything ain't a very hard number.
MARANZANO	One hundred thousand. No... three hundred thousand.
MAD DOG COLL	Now that's a hard number.

REINA	Jeez, Bugsy. Ya like ta scared the crap outta me.
SIEGEL	Just wanted ta say hello.

SIEGEL	Know something Tommy? You're a mensch.
REINA	That a Jew compliment?
SIEGEL	Best we got.
REINA	Awww... deep down I'm a bastard, but when ya got eight kids ya can't make enemies.
SIEGEL	Guess so. Ya got a minute? I got somethin' for ya.

SIEGEL	Take any one ya like.
REINA	Kinda early for Christmas, Bugs.
SIEGEL	A Jew's gotta let his heart tell him when ta give his presents.

REINA	You're fuckin' crazy.
SIEGEL	But only on purpose, Tommy.
REINA	This is nice. I mean it.

TYRONE	Alma!? I uhh I don't think...
ALMA	What do you mean? We're black ain't we? And we care about improving the plight of out people don't we? Or you figure oppression stops at that thing dangling between your legs!
TYRONE	Uhh... I with it sister but...
ALMA	But nothing, we want full fledged membership in the Black Panther Party... and none of this "Okay sugah as long as you stay in the background washing my socks and rubbing my feet" bullshit either!

ALMA	Little Bobby... Just a kid...
TYRONE	They're hurting us, baby. Huey locked up. Bobby Seale running all over the country holding things together. Cy dead. Little Bobby... I don't recognize half the faces at meetings.

ALMA	Tyrone...
TYRONE	Oh shit Alma... you're...
ALMA	I'm okay... listen to me...  Let's go with Judge, check it out.
TYRONE	What?!? Don't tell me you're buying this?

ALMA	Those ain't cops.
TYRONE	And they sure ain't from the neighborhood. Figure Sabu's in there?

TYRONE	Alma I told you to...
ALMA	Fuck that, we've got company...

ALMA	No...
TYRONE	You gotta. You gotta stay alive. You know what they were trying to do here. You got the pigs dead to rights. It's like Huey said, you're more important than any of us.

BEEFY COP	Okay now, er, Huey, so what's your telephone number?
HUEY	I have confirmed to you my address, that's all I'm required to by law to do. We have broken no law.
BEEFY COP	What are you doing with the gun?
HUEY	What are doing with yours?.

BEEFY COP	Lemme see that rifle son...
HUEY	No! This is my private property. According to California law we have a constitutional right to bear arms.

BEEFY COP	Well... is it loaded?
HUEY	I tell you "officer", it wasn't...

BEEFY COP	For the last time Boy!!! What do those guns mean??!!
HUEY	They mean, Pig!, that the Black Panther Party declares that if you try to brutalize our community or take our weapons.  We are going to shoot you!!!

BOBBY	Free? We're back where we started. Shit we still don't have a stop light.
HUEY	Well as the Rev says, God helps those who help themselves.  We'll be our own stoplight.

BOBBY	Well if anyone's gonna protect Malcolm's legacy it better be us.
HUEY	Damn straight...  Let's go check out these Paper Panthers.

HUEY	This brothers is gonna be a colossal event. We'll shut the mother down right at the capitol, in front of the cameras.  Will you cool it? What's up man? What it be Bobby?
BOBBY	What it be is, You aren't coming with us.
HUEY	What? We're the leadership, you and me. There ain't enough of us to...
BOBBY	That's just it Huey. The pigs don't know how many Panthers there are. Both of us show and they might start putting 2 and 2 together. We're not even two hundred strong yet... but we got 'em guessing thousands.
HUEY	I hear you. Alright. I'll go, you stay.

HUEY	You got six months to donate to the party, Bobby?
BOBBY	You know it brother.

HUEY	You got to sit on Eldridge...
BOBBY	Man, El-Rage is El-Rage. You know him.
HUEY	Yeah, I do, but he's gotta cool it...

BOBBY SEALE	Huey!! Man you gotta check this out... You're gonna love...
HUEY	Hold up a second... We got a decision to make.
BOBBY SEALE	What's up?
HUEY	Dig it, you know those brothers over in San Fran... call themselves the Black Panthers too?
BOBBY SEALE	Sure, those boojie jokers don't do anything except print up a lotta paper saying "Black is Beautiful."

HUEY	...The police report says he was shot three times but the coroner's report says quite clearly that Denzil Dowell was shot six times. And two of those shots were in his armpits. Brothers and Sisters you know why that is?  Because Denzil had his hands up!!
BOBBY SEALE	No more police brutality! WHAT DO WE WANT?

BRIMMER	Yeah... Sounds like the Constitution to me. With a little of the Bill of Rights thrown in...
RODGERS	Inspector Brimmer, this is no joke During your surveillance have you seen any outside agitators? Professorial types? Communists?
BRIMMER	No. I've seen Black men handing out bags of food. Having meetings. Patrolling the neighborhood. Having more meetings. They ain't...
RODGERS	They are carrying guns. They are threatening police officers. They are undermining the United States of America. And you Inspector Brimmer are not taking your duties seriously...

BRIMMER	Like?
RODGERS	Like, you Inspector Brimmer are not going to be sitting in your car anymore. I think it's time for a more active type of involvement.

BRIMMER	What the fuck?
RODGERS	Brimmer! Could you come in here please?

RODGERS	Sit down, This concerns you too.  I don't need to say that your department's handling of the Black Panthers -- particularly Inspector Brimmer's "undercover operation" has been a complete travesty.
BRIMMER	Just hold on a god damn minute. I...

BRIMMER	You're Judge right? We need to talk.
JUDGE	I don't know you and I got nothing to say to you.
BRIMMER	Yeah you do. It's up to you either here or downtown.

BRIMMER	So... we understand each other Judge?
JUDGE	Yeah.

BRIMMER	I expect to hear from you soon. If Huey Newton takes a crap, I want to know how big it was. Otherwise I'm gonna come looking for you. And I won't be as "friendly" as today.
JUDGE	I got you.

BRIMMER	Why didn't you tell us about the party you boys were planning at the capitol?
JUDGE	Shit man. It was... you know spontaneous.
BRIMMER	Spontaneous my ass!! You told the press and you don't tell me. Remember you're working for us.
JUDGE	Yeah... whatever you say.
BRIMMER	Are you fucking with me? You smartass piece of shit...

BRIMMER	Get out of the car.
JUDGE	What's with you?
BRIMMER	Get out of the fucking car.

JUDGE	What are you crazy?
BRIMMER	Do you know how easy it would be for you to just disappear. Shit, you wouldn't even wash up for weeks. Do you fucking understand?  I want you to move your ass outta neutral. I want a bunch of Panthers served up on a fucking plate. I want you to set 'em up... armed robbery!!
JUDGE	I can't... they don't operate that way...
BRIMMER	Fuck how they operate. Just do it. like your man says, "By any means necessary."

BRIMMER	Inspector Brimmer
JUDGE	Yeah, it's me.
BRIMMER	Judge, hold on, is your phone safe?
JUDGE	Who fucking cares? You cops killed Cy. And before you bastards kill anyone else, I'll give you your fucking set up. That make you happy??!!
BRIMMER	Judge, calm down.

JUDGE	Hey... what the hell you doing?
BRIMMER	Shut up. Just shut the fuck up.

BRIMMER	Go! Run! Go on! Get the fuck out of here!!
JUDGE	What? So you can shoot me? Call it resisting arrest?
BRIMMER	I ain't gonna shoot you Judge. Look... it's over. Just run away. Get out. Stay away from Oakland. Cause it's gone... it's gone.
JUDGE	Brimmer you're fucked up...
BRIMMER	Yeah... I'm fucked up. You're fucked up. Government's fucked up. Whole country's fucked up. You got no idea what's going on here. This is bigger than you and me. We're just little tiny soldiers getting moved around on some big asshole's desk. The Panthers... fuck you're history... they killed you and you don't even know it.
JUDGE	Who's they?
BRIMMER	Drugs Judge, they're gonna flood West Oakland with dope. Jack you up and string you out like a two dollar whore. And while the community's shuffling for a fix, they're gonna snuff every Panther they can find.
JUDGE	Who? I mean besides the FBI?
BRIMMER	I don't know. Except, it's one of you. Maybe not a Panther, but it's someone from the neighborhood. Judge. Look, just go. Get away. It's over. You lost.  We all lost.

CY	God damn... Kid never had a chance...
ROSE	Mothafuck... Hey!!! What the hell!!!

ROSE	Hey... Cy... what now you a righteous Panther man, you too uppity to drink with us?
CY	You know that's bullshit.

CY	Aaaah, Bitter Motherfucker... I almost forgot how nasty that shit is.
ROSE	Well don't go forgetting your friends.
CY	Ain't gonna happen, stay cool.
ROSE	You know it. Stay Black...
CY	Damn straight.

CY	Sabu, what the fuck you doing? Ain't nobody gonna push on this street.
SABU	Shit, I ain't doing nothing. White bread asks for cocaine, I take his money. Shit... you know... It was just a hustle.
CY	Sabu... High white dude's the only thing you could hustle.
SABU	Man... fuck you. Why you always bustin' my balls? All that high and mighty militant shit. I ain't doing nothing.

CY	I ain't gonna tell you no more. No pushing in the neighborhood, especially not on my fucking street. You're killing your own people asshole.
SABU	Man, fuck you!!!
CY	No Fuck you!!!

SABU	Motherfucker... you stay away...
CY	Look this is bull...

CY	Check it out... Great huh? I tell you those guys know what time it is. Man I'm with that...
JUDGE	I don't know. Look around man.
CY	C'mon Judge we got to start somewhere.
JUDGE	Yeah, and I'm gonna start by getting on my feet. Working on things from inside the system.
CY	Inside ain't in the system.  It's right there inside you!! I'm joining up.

JUDGE	Hey, this what they got you doing now?
CY	Party needs the bread.  Be hip to the struggle, only a dollar!!!

JUDGE	Have to pass on the revolution today man, I got class... But how about tonight, I was gonna check out "Cloud Nine." Just like old times.
CY	Can't... they're having a PE meeting at Headquarters tonight, come on down. Check it out.
JUDGE	PE? What? You guys doing gym class?
CY	No man. PE -- "political education."

CY	...Glad you came man.
JUDGE	Yeah, only I figure you'd be the one doing the speaking.
CY	Not yet, one of these day's maybe. Bobby's party chairman. Political Education's really his bag.

CY	Man, did you see Huey down on Grove street? All up on that cop, that was beautiful.
JUDGE	Yeah, it was alright. Hey, can you give me a lift?
CY	You got it. Berkeley?
JUDGE	No, Panther Headquarters.  Least that way we could hang out more like we used to.
CY	You joining? My Brother..  My brother.

CY	Hey, it's the invisible man. Brother where you been?
JUDGE	Cy... I ain't even sure.
CY	C'mon we'll walk and talk...
JUDGE	Naw... I gotta...
CY	I hear you. I'll catch you in a bit. Feeling cooped up in there, you know?

JUDGE	Cy... Cy... Oh shit man... who did this to you. Was it the pigs?
CY	N... N...... Not... Oh.

DORSETT	Don't I know it. Come on in Agent Rodgers. Sit down. Always a... pleasure to see you. How can I be of help?
RODGERS	It's a bit more like how can we help you. Bay Area's become quite a hornet's nest in terms of subversive activities. And... well Mr. Hoover wants to reiterate that the FBI will be happy to assist local authorities in any way we can. On a strictly advisory basis... of course.
DORSETT	Of course. Well, I appreciate your offer, but we got things pretty well under control. Same bunch of kooks you guys already have under surveillance. They're still doing a lot of yelling and pot-smoking but nothing to worry about.
RODGERS	I see. What about the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense?
DORSETT	Heh, bunch of shines running around in dark caps waving their fists about some streetlight. They're loud, but they aren't dangerous,
RODGERS	Can you make a deal with them?
DORSETT	Naw... They're kids mostly. Idealists. They actually think they're for real.
RODGERS	Hmmm. As you know the Bureau -- and Mr. Hoover -- is particularly "sensitive" to anything that might agitate or solidify the coloreds on the left.

DORSETT	You want me to put a man on it?
RODGERS	That would be an excellent start.  Tell him to keep a low profile.

DORSETT	One: "We want freedom. We want the power to determine the destiny of our Black Community." Two: "We want full employment for our people." Three: "We want to end the robbery by the white man of our Black Community." Christ, they're asking for reparations...
RODGERS	They couldn't have thought this up for themselves.

DORSETT	Now hold on Rodgers...
RODGERS	Chief Dorsett, if the Black Panthers are going to remain in your jurisdiction, some fundamental changes in attitude need to be made...

DORSETT	I want it duly noted, that this operation was entirely under the auspices of the Oakland Police Department. The FBI doesn't have a monopoly on agents infiltrating enemy organizations, my friend. As I've said before, Agent Rodgers, we have things under control in our city...
RODGERS	Are you finished?
DORSETT	No I'm not. I'd like to say, frankly and off the record, that I resent the Bureau's presence here. "Advisory Basis" or not. And, once we get these boys put away and the Panthers permanently discredited, I'd appreciate it if you'd leave us to take care of our own. Now I'm finished.

RODGERS	These are memos from the commissioner, the mayor and Hoover himself, putting the Black Panthers and their subversive activities under the full jurisdiction of the Bureau.
DORSETT	Jesus...
RODGERS	As far as Mr. Hoover is concerned the worst has happened, the Panthers have unified with other organizations -- most likely sponsored by communists -- to undermine the war in Vietnam.  By doing so, they have quite simply guaranteed their own extinction.

DORSETT	Rodgers... this is no good...
RODGERS	Cut the crap, you've been taking the man's money for years. Now it's time you earned it.

DORSETT	To be quite honest it turns my stomach.
RODGERS	Neither your stomach or your opinion matters here Dorsett... What matters is that Mr. Trafficante and the Bureau have come up with a solution to our Panther Problem. One might say...The Final Solution.

RODGERS	I don't think that will be any problem...
DORSETT	You talk as if this thing's already been decided.

ELDRIDGE	But lots of our people don't read, man. They need strong imagery to help them out.
HUEY	Yeah... then shouldn't this be all of us together.
ELDRIDGE	Trust me Huey, this picture will be worth a thousand words. Now have you given any thought to that Peace and Freedom Party thing. They really want to hook up with us. Do a rally together. Hell it'd broaden our base of visibility.
HUEY	Yeah, but aligning with white organizations. I'm not sure now's the time.
ELDRIDGE	The time, my friend, is what Sartre called, "the moment the match is being put to the fuse." Question is, is the hand holding that match gonna be black or white.
HUEY	...no full fledge alliance. But I think we should do a rally with them. Show that there's some common ground between Black and White. You all with that?  All right then Eldridge, set it up.

GENE	Yes sir I was.
GARRY	And did you witness the shoot-out?
GENE	Yes sir, I did.
GARRY	From what you saw, did Huey Newton start the shooting?
GENE	No sir he didn't.

GARRY	Huh, well then...  did someone else start shooting?
GENE	I refuse to answer the question on the grounds it might incriminate me.

GARRY	Did you shoot the officers in question?
GENE	Again I'll take the fifth amendment on that question.

RODGERS	...at least that takes Bobby Seale off the street...
HOOVER	Not good enough Rodgers. Not good enough at all. Black terrorists on the floor of a State Capitol. I will not say this again, these Negro Commies are to be stopped and now. You tear them down. Either from the outside or the inside.
RODGERS	We're working on that...
HOOVER	Work harder. And get me some results. Those Black Bastards could be up to anything.

RODGERS	Granted, the Free Huey thing has become a bit of a rallying cry for the left...
HOOVER	Rallying cry, it's an insurrection. Seale, that god damned Cleaver, Where the hell do these guys come from?
RODGERS	Well... like they say, there's a Panther born every minute in the ghetto. Uh... we seem to have "underestimated" the support of the Black community. It's their power base...

HOOVER	Well, then we're going to take that power away from those bastards.
RODGERS	You mean...
HOOVER	Yes, that's exactly what I mean. And Agent Rodgers?... This conversation never occurred.

TYRONE	That's right brother... listen and learn.
HUEY	The white power structure wants us to act like savages.  But we're a different kind of animal altogether. We're Panthers. And The Black Panther Party for Self Defense is very painfully aware that America has historically reserved its most barbaric treatment for non-white people since the beginning of the country. So we need to organize, we  keep our shit correct! And effect revolution. We revolve the power into the hands of the people. Where it belongs.  Power to the people baby...

TYRONE	Shit, nothing but Paper Panthers.
HUEY	Yeah... but it seems they're bringing Malcolm's widow Betty Shabazz to town, to speak at a rally, do an interview for Ramparts.  And they want us to help with security.

HUEY	We'll get them. Right now we got to worry about being armed and ready to protect Betty Shabazz. Those phonies sure as hell can't. We need guns.
TYRONE	We need money first...
HUEY	Yeah... Bobby you gotta...

HUEY	This here's a "Panther Patrol." We see a brother getting busted. We check it out, make sure the pig don't go beating on the man. Brother gets taken downtown, we post bail, hook 'em up with a lawyer.
TYRONE	We're like policing the police.

HUEY	You're a little old to be a school boy aren't you brother.  Cool it! You're probably not the only one they've gone after. Stall a little so they believe you're for real. Make them trust you.  Hey Tyrone, you figure feeding our children is gonna make The Man jumpy?
TYRONE	Black people getting uppity, feeding their children breakfast, taking their destiny into their own hands. What's this world coming to?

TYRONE	C'mon let's...
HUEY	No! Just harassment. Can't let it stop this.  Brother we got momentum!

HUEY	Alright, I'll stay. Judge, I want to...
TYRONE	Where you been? I saw the cops rousting you at the rally.

TYRONE	Huey man I got to talk with you...
HUEY	So talk...
TYRONE	Alone...
HUEY	Look... can we deal with this tomorrow... I'm tired...

TYRONE	Yeah man, but where's Judge?
HUEY	You know I think Brother Judge needs our support right now, not our suspicion  This is beautiful man. Folks around here never read the truth like this before.

HUEY	That's right. We'd be proud to provide as escort for Malcolm's widow. How many men you got?
ROY	Get the brothers a beer. Me too while you're at it.  Men? Well we can spare six for security...
HUEY	No thank you sister.  Six?!! That seems a little light. Cops are watching Betty, watching her hard. We need at least twenty men. And that's twenty armed Panthers dig? You do have guns don't you?
ROY	I assure you that we as the revolutionary vanguard are as serious about this as you are. We'll be prepared.

HUEY	We put our lives on the line today. Malcolm X's widow was on the line today. And your guns weren't even loaded.
ROY	A gun's a gun man. It don't need to be loaded.
HUEY	Tell that to the pigs. Better yet tell that to Malcolm.
ROY	Wait a second there brother...
HUEY	No you wait a second. You and your "Panthers" got three choices. One you join with us and follow our rules. Two you change your name.  Or three you face annihilation.

HUEY	You were. infantry right?
JUDGE	Yeah.
HUEY	So I guess it's safe to say you know about firepower.

HUEY	We appreciate your help with this.
JUDGE	So what's the deal?
HUEY	Freedom... We're just gonna test some of the words in that law book.

HUEY	Judge... we're doing security for Betty Shabazz's visit next week. I'd like to have someone who knows there way around a pistol there. Someone like you.
JUDGE	I don't know.
HUEY	You are down for protecting Malcolm's widow aren't you?
JUDGE	Yeah... let me think about it.
HUEY	Okay man I ain't going to push. But remember the revolution isn't going to wait for anyone. Come on, we'll give you a lift.
JUDGE	No man. Gonna walk.

HUEY	Welcome brother, have you decided to get down with us?
JUDGE	I'm down.
HUEY	Yeah... You were a lot of help with those guns. Your soldier shit is bad- ass.
JUDGE	I'd hoped I was finished with all that. But... 
HUEY	You know, you're lucky to be back. Most niggers die on the front lines. Seems like that's what they're there for.
JUDGE	Don't I know it. Every brother I knew in 'Nam's dead. My company... a land mine. Twenty of my friends dead in less than a second.
HUEY	Mind if I ask you something? Why'd you put up with shit like that for someone else's war?

JUDGE	Hey, GI bill pays for school. And shit, if I stuck around here, instead of signing up, I'd probably be in jail, or sitting on the stoop drinking Bitter Dog with Rose, you know?
HUEY	Yeah I know. You're smart Judge. You ain't no bourgeois nigger like those Paper Panthers across the bay. I need every good man to help us with the security on Betty Shabazz, particularly soldiers. You do solid on that I might have something else for you, something real important.
JUDGE	Whatever you need, I'll be there.
HUEY	Right on Brother Judge...

HUEY	What it be Judge. Nobody got hurt, Sister Betty's safe. This was a good day...
JUDGE	They were empty...

HUEY	You were alright Judge, better than alright. You're what the Party needs. A fighter but also one that's going to school not making the man too nervous.
JUDGE	I don't know about that.
HUEY	I do. You think you're smart enough to keep playing the game?
JUDGE	What, I don't know how you mean?
HUEY	See, the thing about Panthers. For all their speed and strength. They are not naturally aggressive. They don't just go out killing, tearing through the jungles murdering. No, the Panther  keeps his claws hidden until he is attacked, until he's backed into a corner. Then  believe me those claws are fierce.
JUDGE	Huey, you're losing me. What are you talking about?
HUEY	I'm talking about survival. Yours, mine, all of it. Outside and in. You got to do something for me. Staying alive might depend on it. The pigs are gonna try to infiltrate us and we're gonna let 'em. But their spy's gonna be our spy too. How about it?

JUDGE	Me? You've got a whole lot of other folks signing up. Why me?
HUEY	You fit the profile, Brother. You look exactly like the kind of nigger they think they can trust...

JUDGE	Aw... uh... it's was just harassment. My driver's license expired.
HUEY	Chickenshits, they're grabbing at anything.

HUEY	What's the pig's name?
JUDGE	Brimmer.
HUEY	You got to keep very cool on this. Icy god damn cool. Cause baby, you just became the strongest weapon we got. Let me guess, he wants you to call him, tell him what we're doing.
JUDGE	Yeah.
HUEY	And you're gonna do just that. But I'll tell you what to feed the pig. You alright with this?
JUDGE	Yeah... I guess. Any of other Panthers know about this?

JUDGE	Man, this shit's pretty thick.
HUEY	You got that right. And brother, I got a feeling it's going to get a whole lot thicker.

HUEY	Listen Judge, Oakland's Panther International Headquarters. We shut the Pig's infiltration down here, they're gonna think twice about running their games on other chapters.
JUDGE	Huey, man who's gonna straighten out the brothers if they get on my ass?
HUEY	Like the manual says, "Information is...

JUDGE	I don't know man. I don't know. That reminds me.  Another little donation from the police.
HUEY	If the pigs only knew they were subsidizing The Panthers...
JUDGE	Yeah well, they want a lot for their money. They want a felony, preferably with "violent intent." We've got to give them something. They'll kill me if I don't. And the Panthers are going to kill me if I do. I'm scared.
HUEY	Me too. That's why I fight so hard.

JUDGE	I saw... but...
TYRONE	But nothing... you do live here don't you?

JUDGE	Yeah, I do.
TYRONE	Well, act like it. Come on.

TYRONE	Don't let the cops provoke you. We're there to watch and take badge numbers...
JUDGE	And who is we?

TYRONE	Shit, we made him get his moms to give permission before he could sign up.
JUDGE	Just a kid.
TYRONE	Yeah, well, cops kick the shit out of kids too.

JUDGE	I thought you said all the Panthers were gonna be here.
TYRONE	What you see is what you got.  That's' Bobby Seale.

TYRONE	You're a smart brother... you should dig what Huey and Bobby got to say...
JUDGE	Maybe...
TYRONE	Fuck maybe... be there.

JUDGE	Busted firing pin.  You want only the legal stuff right?
TYRONE	Just the legit shit.

JUDGE	Huh?
TYRONE	He had a feeling you'd be coming by.

TYRONE	What? You don't like to see a traitor get hurt? I wonder why that is?
JUDGE	If you got something to say, say it.
TYRONE	Anything happens to Huey it ain't gonna be a finger. I'll...

TYRONE	What's up with you?
JUDGE	Nothing.
TYRONE	You got something on your mind... "brother."
JUDGE	Yeah, "brother" My best friend is stone dead.

TYRONE	Sorry man...
JUDGE	S'alright. I'm sorry too. Shit, I gotta take a leak... Pull over at that gas station.

JUDGE	Fuck is up?!
TYRONE	Mothafucker! You just set Bobby Seale up to be kidnapped. They dragged him off to some bullshit conspiracy trial in Chicago. How much the pigs pay you for this one, Judge? 

JUDGE	You better just kill me Tyrone. And when Huey gets out, when Oakland's just wall to wall junkies, you tell him you blew away the only chance we all got. I'm sure he'll be real happy about that.
TYRONE	What are you saying?
JUDGE	The pigs are gonna start flooding us with dope. Huey wants us to stop them.
TYRONE	Bullshit...

TYRONE	Chickenshits? What you bring your buddies with you?
JUDGE	No man No!! Tyrone listen... we got to move man, they got a warehouse...
TYRONE	Shut the fuck up!!

JUDGE	You alright?
TYRONE	Not really. Gimme the keys for the trunk.

JUDGE	Motherfuckers...
TYRONE	Look... You... take her and get the hell out of here. I'll keep 'em busy.

JUDGE	We'll all get out of here together.
TYRONE	Later for that. I'm done either way...

ROSE	You supposed to be a wounded vet, Motherfucka. What you do in 'Nam anyway, shoot gooks or shoot hoops?
JUDGE	All of the above, man...  And then some.

JUDGE	My Mom's at that.
ROSE	Funny you don't look like church folk to me.

JUDGE	Rose, what the hell you doing here?
ROSE	Just come for the food, man. Ain't quite sure what their bag is but...

ROSE	This cool the heat off you any?
JUDGE	I don't know.  But I'm sure I'll find out. Rose, you did me solid.

ROSE	Unh... Unh Man... I don't take no money from friends that need help. Fuck no. What do you think I am a bum?
JUDGE	Not at all.  I'll catch you later.

ROSE	Judge... I... I shoulda told you this before but... well... fuck...
JUDGE	What?
ROSE	It was Sabu killed Cy.
JUDGE	Where is he?.
ROSE	Ain't no one seen him.
JUDGE	Why didn't you tell me?
ROSE	Didn't want folks to think I was a snitch. You know?

JUDGE	Rose?
ROSE	Yeah... Look man, what I gotta say. It's just you, me and the rats, right? Alright... well... Sabu's back.
JUDGE	Motherfuck... well then I got something to do.
ROSE	No... wait, there's something else, something weird. I hear he's set up down at that warehouse on fifty deuce. He's talking big and living bigger.

JUDGE	God damn it's him. I gotta go.
ROSE	Judge man. Watch yourself. Sabu's got juice now.
JUDGE	You don't even know it man, but you're a god damn hero.

JUDGE	It's okay Mom. I'm allright.
RITA	You don't look alright.
JUDGE	Yeah... cop hit me...
RITA	I saw. I saw that big one  hit that police man. Saw 'em drag you off too.  They take you to jail?
JUDGE	Yeah.
RITA	Lord, never thought I'd live to see my boy in prison.
JUDGE	Mom! It wasn't like that. It was bullsh... They were just harassing us. No charges were filed. It's alright.

RITA	You meet those friends of yours in jail too?
JUDGE	Yes... No... Mom it's not like you think. They're alright. There out there trying to do something.
RITA	I hear them boys, those Black Panthers, they're communists. They don't even believe in God.
JUDGE	Mom, black folks been praying to God for four hundred years. Maybe it's time we tried something else...
RITA	You believe that?
JUDGE	I don't know. I really don't.

GABRIEL	So. This is the guy you been waiting for. Man of your dreams.
ASHLEY	Gabriel -- !
GABRIEL	Must have a way with stationery.
ASHLEY	Gabriel, what are you doing!

GABRIEL	You better be here to be good to her, loverboy. 'Cause she's been good to you.
ASHLEY	Gabriel, let him go --
GABRIEL	Read a lot about you, Nick.
ASHLEY	What are you doing here?!
GABRIEL	Read you're a man of some knowledge.
ASHLEY	Gabriel!
GABRIEL	A man of some travels.
ASHLEY	GABRIEL, I LOVE HIM!

GABRIEL	Is this him!?
ASHLEY	Don't hurt him...
GABRIEL	Is this the fucker you been writing all year!?
ASHLEY	Please, Gabriel, don't...

GABRIEL	IS THIS NICK MASON!!??
ASHLEY	YES!!!

ASHLEY	Gabriel, you promised!
GABRIEL	I promised that when he helped us, we'd be gone! When he helped us! Loverboy don't want to play!

ASHLEY	You promised me!
GABRIEL	And you promised me you'd get your sweetheart to help!

GABRIEL	He'd rather die than be with you, he'd make a fucked-up boyfriend anyway.  Bury him all over the place.
ASHLEY	NO!

ASHLEY	Gabriel! You said talk to him. That's all you ever said...
GABRIEL	We're talking, aren't we?

GABRIEL	He wants the money.
ASHLEY	No, baby. He wants me.

ASHLEY	He wants... your "sister"...
GABRIEL	...whoever she is.

GABRIEL	All those letters are about to pay off, baby... all those letters...
ASHLEY	To all those cons...
GABRIEL	Searching for a money man...
ASHLEY	We musta written what, twenty of 'em? And they were before this guy. One, two letters apiece, ten to the racetrack guy in Leavenworth --
GABRIEL	-- till he fucked his parole --
ASHLEY	-- plus the forty to Mason... how many letters is that?
GABRIEL	That's a book, baby.  That's a book of love.

GABRIEL	I can't take watching you touch him. I can't take his hands on you.
ASHLEY	One more day, baby. One more day to Christmas.
GABRIEL	I've been doing good, though.
ASHLEY	Didn't have to hit me so fucking hard. Didn't have to throw me outta the goddamn truck.
GABRIEL	Didn't have to send me down a fucking mountain.
ASHLEY	What, he should see me help you catch him?

ASHLEY	He's shown us the setup, he's drawn us the map, he's helped us do the plan. He wants a gun, give him a gun. Take the bullets out, whatever, but give him the gun. The more manpower we've got in there, the better. He won't try and make his move till the money's in hand.
GABRIEL	He'll be dead when he does.

GABRIEL	Y'know something, baby? If you were my sister? I'd still want to wake up Christmas morning with you...
ASHLEY	Mmm, baby. And I'd still want to be the tinsel round your tree...

ASHLEY	Gabriel!
GABRIEL	That's for the hundred bucks worth of pay-per-view.  And that's for the two hundred you took outta your minibar.

TEEN CLERK	You can't find... what?
ASHLEY	Toys for adults. Where are your toys for adults?
TEEN CLERK	Toys for... adults?
ASHLEY	C'mon. How old are you, sixteen? C'mon.
TEEN CLERK	We sell children's toys --
ASHLEY	I got fifty dollars to spend in your store, Jesus of Nazareth. Can you help me or not?

TEEN CLERK	Slinky's in aisle five, Twister's in aisle one, Moon Mud's in aisle four.
ASHLEY	Thank you.

RUDY	Gotta be ten degrees out there.
ASHLEY	Radio said negative five.
RUDY	Negative five?
ASHLEY	Yeah.
RUDY	I don't think it's negative five.
ASHLEY	Radio said.

ASHLEY	I figured you walked outta there and saw me and walked right the other way --
RUDY	No, no --
ASHLEY	Saw my outfit or something, my coat --
RUDY	No, hey, I like your coat --
ASHLEY	Saw me --
RUDY	Ashley, no. That was me, that's what I was scared of. I mean, be serious... I ain't exactly looking like Mr. Universe here.
ASHLEY	You are to me.

ASHLEY	Thought you wrote you had a mustache.
RUDY	I can get another one going. Y'know, hey, whatever you want me to --
ASHLEY	No, no, no. Be like you want to be.

RUDY	Do that again.
ASHLEY	What.
RUDY	Smile.

ASHLEY	No --
RUDY	One more. Smile. One more.
ASHLEY	No, c'mon --
RUDY	I've been dreaming about that smile, Ashley Mercer. For a long time.

RUDY	Tell me something. This the first time you've ever done this?
ASHLEY	Go to hell, Nick Mason, what's that supposed to mean --
RUDY	No, not that, no...  I mean this, the whole thing. Start writing to a guy, guy in the bricks. Get a boyfriend like this. Tell me the truth.
ASHLEY	Well. You're not the first guy I wrote to. But you're the only one I kept writing to.
RUDY	Yeah. Me too.  Why? I mean I know why for me, why I paid for the ad. But you... why start writing to some guy -- some con -- you don't even know?

ASHLEY	I told you, Nick. Remember?
RUDY	Tell me again.
ASHLEY	All the guys I've ever been with... they never want to know me. Who I am on the inside. They just want to qet inside. When they do, they think that means they know who I am. That I trust them. That they know me. That there's nothing left to learn.  A guy like you, Nick -- six months before you can even touch my face. I figure a guy in that kind of bind, he's gonna hafta work to get to know me some other way.
RUDY	Had some bad relationships, didn't you.
ASHLEY	Not bad. Just regular.  You wrote me wonderful things, Nick. Personal things.

RUDY	Well, wasn't all me, y'know.
ASHLEY	Yes it was all you --
RUDY	Guy I was in with... he helped sometimes... some of the romantic stuff, actually... you'd like him --
ASHLEY	I'm talking about the heart, Nick. I'm not talking about the words.
RUDY	Y'know, some of the heart mighta been his too...
ASHLEY	Then he shoulda signed his name.

RUDY	Where the hell are you going?
ASHLEY	Provisions! We are not leaving that motel room again till after New Year's: we need ten days worth of provisions!  What's good?!

RUDY	Ashley, Jesus --
ASHLEY	Can't survive on our bodies alone, Nick.  Hurry up!
RUDY	Ash... didn't you write me that you don't eat chocolate?
ASHLEY	Yeah, well you wrote me you were six- foot-four, baby.  So don't talk to me about little white lies.

ASHLEY	You need a COAT!
RUDY	Ash, you've gotten me enough --
ASHLEY	No boyfriend of mine is going to walk around in negative-five degree wind chill without a goddamn good- looking coat!

RUDY	Baby, c'mon, all this stuff... I haven't gotten you anything --
ASHLEY	You got out, Nick. You're here. You're my Christmas.

ASHLEY	You forget where I work?
RUDY	Beauty and fragrances.
ASHLEY	Fifty percent off, motherfucker. Ho ho ho.

RUDY	Well, I don't know about that --
ASHLEY	Blackjack, Nick, blackjack I am good at. I mean, they'd give us some free games or something, wouldn't they? Since you worked there?
RUDY	Security, Ash, I just worked security. They wouldn't be rolling out the red carpet --
ASHLEY	And the slots, slots I'm good at too. Wouldn't that be fun?
RUDY	We'll have more fun in Detroit.
ASHLEY	We could live it up and --
RUDY	Ashley. We're not going anywhere I used to work.

ASHLEY	Baby, I'm gonna go tell 'em not to disturb us for the rest of the year. I get back in that room, you better be wearing nothing but a candy cane.
RUDY	I'll see what I can do.
ASHLEY	No, lover. I'll see what you can do.

RUDY	NO!
ASHLEY	NICK!

RUDY	I'm not him. I...  You want something from Nick, you got the wrong guy.
ASHLEY	Nick...

ASHLEY	I won't let 'em, Nick. They won't hurt you anymore.
RUDY	Your brother...

RUDY	...the truck driver...
ASHLEY	He's not a bad person, Nick... he's not...

ASHLEY	Since Janey moved in... Gabriel... he's come over more and more. To the apartment. Janey's the divorced one, 'member, with the tit job --
RUDY	What the fuck is going on.
ASHLEY	He read the letters, Nick. Some day I wasn't there. He went through my room. He found your letters.
RUDY	What's going ON!!!

RUDY	You motherfucker.
ASHLEY	Nick, no --
RUDY	You sold him out.
ASHLEY	Nick --
RUDY	When'd you decide to do it, Ash? After which of his letters, huh? The fortieth? The fiftieth? The first?!
ASHLEY	Nick, what are you --

RUDY	I'M NOT NICK!  You thought you'd fuck him over?! Well he's fucked you! I've never worked at some casino! I can't help you! Because he's not me!
ASHLEY	Nick, I love you --
RUDY	JESUS CHRIST!

RUDY	Get the hell off of me!
ASHLEY	Nick, it won't work. It won't work!

ASHLEY	He'll kill you.
RUDY	You're not hearing me here --
ASHLEY	My brother's killed people, I know he has. Truckers. If you talk him into thinking you're not you, you'll only get yourself dead.
RUDY	He didn't "find" Nick's letters, did he.
ASHLEY	Nick, please, it's me --
RUDY	You told him about Nick's letters.
ASHLEY	No, Nick, no --
RUDY	You're in on this.
ASHLEY	I love you!

RUDY	Your pen palls dead, lady.
ASHLEY	If you say that, if you keep saying that, they will kill you. If they think you're not you, they will kill you. Don't you see? I know what you're doing, but it won't work!
RUDY	Nick died for me....
ASHLEY	I won't let him hurt you! He just wants what you know!
RUDY	...maybe I die for Nick...
ASHLEY	Just tell him what you know, Nick! That's all they want! And we'll get out of this!

ASHLEY	Gabriel!
RUDY	Canada.

RUDY	They changed the layout -- whadda they call you? Mr. Monster? They remodeled the place. When I worked there -- listen to me -- guy that managed the joint, guy who ran it--
ASHLEY	Jack. Jack Bangs.
RUDY	Right, Jack Bangs. Uh... guy was always talking bout fixing the place up. Maybe get a better crowd. Musta gone and done it while I was in the Mountain.  I don't know this map, man. How the hell am I supposed to tell you what door goes where?

ASHLEY	He said he wanted to talk to you. When he found the letters... he said "when your boyfriend gets out, I wanna talk to him." I thought he meant back in Detroit. I thought he meant --
RUDY	But you knew why. Knew why, didn't ya.

ASHLEY	I thought we'd have a few more days.
RUDY	For what? You to talk me into "helping"? What, he promise you a share of the winnings?
ASHLEY	No!
RUDY	Well, shit, Judas, you shoulda at least gotten that --
ASHLEY	Nick! He wants to know how to rob it, and he'll leave you alone! That's all he wants!  I hate him, Nick... you know how...
RUDY	So get him outta your life. Get out of Michigan. They got perfume counters in Chicago, don't they?
ASHLEY	Not without you.

RUDY	Since when do some trucker pals start thinking big, anyway?
ASHLEY	They run routes mostly east, retail stuff, warehouses. But Gabriel knows some guys in New York, Miami, guys he helps get guns to Detroit. Hides 'em with his regular loads.
RUDY	He working for them on this one?
ASHLEY	No. He wants to be working for himself someday.
RUDY	And I'm his ticket.  What's the last place they took down?
ASHLEY	What?
RUDY	Gabriel and his guys. What's the last place they robbed?

RUDY	They've never done a robbery?
ASHLEY	They're truck drivers.

RUDY	Then they do need me, don't they. They really need me...
ASHLEY	We're gonna get out of here, Nick. We're gonna get out of this...
RUDY	We? What "we"...

RUDY	Get your own room, Ashley.
ASHLEY	Nick...
RUDY	Get your own room.

ASHLEY	So does it look a lot different?
RUDY	Here and there. Restaurant, uh, that's the main expansion. Tables've been moved around; the big man's office, I dunno, might be upstairs now.

ASHLEY	That guy knows you?
RUDY	Yeah, uh. Mike. That's Mike.

ASHLEY	Nick, what happened --
RUDY	There went my... damn... well, doesn't seem like security's all that switched... Ash, shit, this mustache is starting to fall off. I gotta fix this thing --  -- drink this for me.

RUDY	We get to the bridge, we're all right!
ASHLEY	Nick, the ice is --
RUDY	Get to the bridge!  HEY! HEY! DOWN HERE!

ASHLEY	Jesus Christ, stay here, don't move, stay right here --
RUDY	All I wanted... was to make it home... for a little of Dad's turkey, and Mom's stuffing... Aunt Lisbeth's acorn gravy... Aunt Mary's cranberry buns...

ASHLEY	We'll get there, baby... we'll get there...
RUDY	...Haven't had cranberry buns... in five whole years...
ASHLEY	Shh, now. Rest now. Two years, Nick. You haven't had cranberry buns in two years.

ASHLEY	You saved my life.  You could have run, but you didn't. You saved me.
RUDY	You saved me.
ASHLEY	I saved you because I love you, Nick.  Why'd you save me?

ASHLEY	I'm sorry, Nick... I'm so sorry...
RUDY	Don't say my name...
ASHLEY	I love you, Nick...
RUDY	Ash. Don't say it. Don't say my name.

RUDY	They'll have guns.
ASHLEY	What?
RUDY	You said they've run guns, in their trucks. So they'll have guns. To do this robbery. They'll have serious guns.
ASHLEY	I don't know...
RUDY	We'll need one.

RUDY	I'm going to have to be inside that casino. When it happens. I'll need to be part of it. I can't just be drawing some map.
ASHLEY	Nick, what are you talking about?
RUDY	We need to find a way to make me part of it.
ASHLEY	Part of... with them?

ASHLEY	He wants to see your map.
RUDY	I'm almost done.
ASHLEY	He says he wants it now.
RUDY	If he wanted a photographic memory, he shoulda kidnapped one. I'm working on it here.

ASHLEY	How are we gonna do this, Nick?
RUDY	You're the getaway girl. The money's gonna get to you eventually. Gonna be my job to be the guy who walks outta there with it. But I can't do that without a gun. Any luck talking to him?
ASHLEY	Bullets or no bullets, he won't do it.
RUDY	Is there any way you could get into his truck?
ASHLEY	No.
RUDY	We need a gun, Ash. We need a gun...

RUDY	Here's the Picasso. Is he in his room?
ASHLEY	They all are. Football's on.
RUDY	Keep 'em there for a little while.

RUDY	I don't know where you're going. But I'm going home.
ASHLEY	We go together, Nick. Wherever... we go together. Remember?
RUDY	Well. I'm going home.

ASHLEY	WHERE'S THE FUCKING CASH, NICK!
RUDY	Yeah. That's love.

ASHLEY	You... you... YOU --
RUDY	We still gonna spend Christmas together?

RUDY	I saved your life.
ASHLEY	You shouldn't have.
RUDY	He did love you, you know. Nick. He did love you.
ASHLEY	Who wouldn't.

ASHLEY	Merry Christmas, Rudy.
RUDY	I'm glad it was me.
ASHLEY	Merry Christmas.

ASHLEY	What?
RUDY	Rudy. How'd you know my name?
ASHLEY	What are you talking about?

RUDY	You said Merry Christmas, Rudy.
ASHLEY	I... you told me your name was Rudy. You told me a million times, back in the truck, telling me you weren't Nick --
RUDY	No --
ASHLEY	You were screaming you weren't Nick! And we just didn't fucking believe you!
RUDY	But I never said Rudy.
ASHLEY	You said it a million times!
RUDY	I never told you my name.

RUDY	You... you don't know me --
GABRIEL	Oh, I know you, Nick. I know you real well.
RUDY	No, you can't --
GABRIEL	The hell I can't.

GABRIEL	Who are you now.
RUDY	You got the wrong guy! She thinks I'm Nick, I'm not!
GABRIEL	Put him in the truck.
RUDY	I was in the joint with him! I knew about him and her, okay!? I took his place!
GABRIEL	You what...
RUDY	I got out, Nick didn't! I pretended I was him! I knew about her letters! Jesus Christ, whatever you want from him -- I'm not Nick!  I -- I just wanted to be --

GABRIEL	You're not Nick Mason...
RUDY	I shared his cell!
GABRIEL	But you were saying you were...
RUDY	Yes!
GABRIEL	So you could get with my sister.
RUDY	Yes!
GABRIEL	So you could get down her chimney.
RUDY	Yes!
GABRIEL	And you think telling me that's gonna help your cause.

GABRIEL	You're a good writer, Nick. I give this writing an A-plus.
RUDY	I never worked at no casino.

GABRIEL	Hey. She says she loves you, Nick.
RUDY	She says a lot of things.
GABRIEL	She's getting you to help us... 'cause she knows if you don't, you're dead. You just tell us what we need to know, you two live happily ever after. My sister loves you, motherfucker, and I ain't gonna have you break her heart.
RUDY	Wish I had a brother like you.
GABRIEL	A girl says she loves you, you say something.

RUDY	I had better sex in prison.
GABRIEL	Heyyy. Be nice, convict. We're gonna be working together here.  Get him back in the rig.

GABRIEL	Where's she work?
RUDY	What?
GABRIEL	Wrote you a hundred letters, didn't she? Where's she work?
RUDY	J.C. Penney. Beauty and fragrances.
GABRIEL	What's her middle name?
RUDY	Samantha.
GABRIEL	What'd they call her in high school?
RUDY	Bam Bam.
GABRIEL	What'd they call her in college?
RUDY	What college.
GABRIEL	Where'd she drop her cherry?

GABRIEL	Be more specific.
RUDY	A station wagon in Canada.
GABRIEL	What's her greatest fear?
RUDY	Her brother.
GABRIEL	Wrong, Nick. It's drowning.
RUDY	No. It's her brother.

GABRIEL	Let's get back on the road. It's time to start talking, Nick. Time to start telling tales --
RUDY	Nick don't talk till Nick gets something.

GABRIEL	You knew the place --
RUDY	Hey.

GABRIEL	How much money's in that casino? Day-to-day.
RUDY	I don't know.
GABRIEL	The hell you don't.
RUDY	Five million?
GABRIEL	You wrote Ash that letter, you told her that story 'bout working Christmas Eve, bout how they'd send half the security guys home, nobody comin, in that night. And the rest of you got shit-faced drinking hot buttered rum. That a true story now?
RUDY	Christmas... Eve...
GABRIEL	You know where the guards are. You know how to get in and out. You know where the money is.  We're taking down that casino, convict. You're the guy gonna tell us how.

RUDY	Hey, it's... been two years --
GABRIEL	We got faith in you, Nick Mason.  You're our inside man.

RUDY	Hell. Ten?
GABRIEL	And which of these doors here lead up to the security level?

GABRIEL	What?
RUDY	I said, who the hell made the map?
GABRIEL	I did.
RUDY	This isn't the Tomahawk.
GABRIEL	What the fuck are you talking about.
RUDY	This is the front entrance, right? You get through the slots, you hit craps here, not blackjack. Blackjack's here to here -- lined up. What's this, the cage? Cage is over there, hard to get to, you got it all mixed around --

GABRIEL	We walked the place for a week.
RUDY	And I worked there. For a year.

GABRIEL	They wouldn't have changed the security setup.
RUDY	When I worked there, this was Bangs, office. Back here. He kept a little safe in the... uh, the wall, money held take for himself, skim from the Indians. Called it the... uh...  ...the Powwow Safe.

GABRIEL	So what the hell good are you...
RUDY	You'd have to get me inside.  Get inside, watch where the money's moving, see where the guards are going. Then I could work with your map.
GABRIEL	Wrong, convict. You walk in there, they recognize you.

RUDY	They won't recognize me.
GABRIEL	Why not.
RUDY	Trust me. They won't recognize me.
GABRIEL	We'll trust you when we're rich. Why not.
RUDY	'Cause you're gonna get me a disguise.

GABRIEL	Bring back some memories, Nick?
RUDY	More than you know.

GABRIEL	Rather be back in the Mountain?
RUDY	Might as well be.
GABRIEL	Don't have Weather Channel in the Mountain, Nick.

RUDY	A cowboy. You're going to send me into an Indian casino disguised as a cowboy. Have you thought this entirely through?
GABRIEL	Put it on.

GABRIEL	You're a country-western singer up from Nashville for the the holidays. Visiting your Grandma on the lake, driving into the Tomahawk for some scotch and slots. You only play the slots, you got that? Don't want no dealer friend of yours recognizing you, you sidle up to shoot some craps.
RUDY	What kind of half-ass cowboy plays the slots?
GABRIEL	You do.
RUDY	At least gimme video poker.
GABRIEL	Shut the fuck up. You play what your girlfriend plays. Ashley's going in with you. You talk to her, otherwise you don't talk to nobody. You walk the room as many times as you want, but the second you come out, I want to know the run of the place.

RUDY	Do I get a country-western name?
GABRIEL	You get recognized, convict, You get a country-western funeral.

RUDY	Y'know what, guys? I woke up this morning, I got a really lucky feeling going on. I mean it, I'm feeling that good. I wouldn't be surprised if I walk in there, pull a handle and hit jackpot. Hell, we wouldn't even have to --
GABRIEL	Get out.

GABRIEL	You got one hour.
RUDY	I'm gonna need some money.

RUDY	Ten dollars? What do I do with ten dollars?
GABRIEL	Don't tip.
RUDY	Monster. If we're working together here, we gotta be working together. I can't walk in there looking like the Lone Fucking Ranger with ten bucks to throw down. You don't want me getting noticed, right? Not getting noticed costs a guy at least a couple hundred.

GABRIEL	A for effort, Nick, honestly, A for effort and an honorary degree. I'm surprised you never escaped from the Mountain.
RUDY	...never... tried...
GABRIEL	Nick, here's what we're gonna do. In the spirit of the season, I'm going to give you a chance. I understand you're unhappy. Right outta the lockup, here against your will, it's the holidays and there's reruns on TV.  So we're gonna have a contest.

GABRIEL	Got something to say to me, Nick?
RUDY	...ttt..tt... two out of three?

GABRIEL	What'd you tell that casino manager?
RUDY	Nnn... nothing...
GABRIEL	You were talking to him! What'd you tell him!?
RUDY	Nothing... I promise-nothing...
GABRIEL	MAYBE SOMETHING ABOUT A ROBBERY?
RUDY	NO!

RUDY	He thought I was some gambler... he didn't know me... he didn't recognize me!
GABRIEL	I been driving rigs a long time, Nick. Four, five million miles of road. Worked for people who wouldn't keep me on less I was driving fifteen hours a day. Tell 'em I needed sleep, I needed rest, shit, they'll hire someone else...

GABRIEL	It's time for me... to be working for me. I want mine, Nick. And I need you.  Did you tell your manager there's gonna be a robbery?
RUDY	No, Gabriel... no...

RUDY	Man, Monster... just... just don't start trying to hit me...
GABRIEL	Nick. I been trying to hit you.

GABRIEL	Start singing.
RUDY	I have no gifts to bring, pa-rumpum- pum-pum
GABRIEL	Sing it in pictures, Nick.

RUDY	Across from blackjack, there's a security doorway. Keypad access.
GABRIEL	What's the code?
RUDY	Uh... they change it every month. I wouldn't know.  If there's trouble on the floor, you'll get security coming through. what you gotta do, is get inside that doorway once they do. You gotta draw 'em out.

RUDY	So. You're gonna need a man through here, two men at the cage, one to cover the count. You're gonna need a lookout outside, a sweeper through the back, and a gun guarding the front.  You need six.
GABRIEL	We got five. Putting Ashley outside.
RUDY	You need six.

GABRIEL	NO.
RUDY	You go in with five, you're either leaving an alarm free or an exit free. Someone hits an alarm, you're fucked. Someone gets to a phone, gets outside, 'cross the street, whatever, you're fucked. You need six.  Six is me.
GABRIEL	No.
RUDY	You guys get caught, I go away for good. I got an interest in making sure you don't. You need a sixth man covering an exit. What're you gonna do about it.

GABRIEL	I want a map of that security level. Every room, every guard, every thing.
RUDY	Six men means six guns.
GABRIEL	No way.
RUDY	I'm no threat without a gun.
GABRIEL	No, you're not.
RUDY	There'll be people in that casino. I can't keep them from leaving if I don't get a gun. I don't need bullets, Monster... but I gotta be a threat.

GABRIEL	No gun.
RUDY	Well. What you guys have to plan out, then... is how you're going to get to that cage and that security level before anybody realizes anything's wrong. Running in with ski masks and bullets flying ain't gonna do it.
GABRIEL	That part, Nick... was planned out the day I read your letters.
RUDY	What. We all gonna dress up like cowboys?
GABRIEL	Not cowboys, Nick. Not cowboys.

RUDY	You gotta be kidding me.
GABRIEL	'Tis the season, convict.

GABRIEL	Can't be attracting attention, right?
RUDY	What, we walking in there and delivering toys?

GABRIEL	You are lucky, convict. You're spending Christmas with the birthday boy himself --
RUDY	Hey! HEY! THERE IS A POWWOW SAFE!

GABRIEL	Buncha guys in red suits busted in, they'll say. Started shooting. They won't be able to remember... if it was three, or four... or five. Four dead Santas and some burned-up cash. Merry Christmas, The End.
RUDY	Was it your plan, Monster? Or was it hers.

GABRIEL	Get in the CAR!
RUDY	How'd you know my name...

GABRIEL	Ash?
RUDY	How'd you know my name was Rudy.
GABRIEL	Ash?
RUDY	How'd you know my name.

MERLIN	Hey. They got a shitload of cookies.
GABRIEL	Take 'em.
MERLIN	How 'bout the tree? You want the tree?
GABRIEL	Leave the tree.

GABRIEL	Here ya go, convict. We cased the place in the fall, got the layout down. What you're gonna do is show us where each of these doors go, what the upstairs level looks like, where they got the alarms, all of it.
MERLIN	And where they hide the real money.

MERLIN	Who's robbin' who here, Gabriel...
GABRIEL	Get in there and watch 'em. Watch their every fuckin' move.

GABRIEL	Where the HELL did he go?
MERLIN	Monster. There never was a structure change. This place was built the same from day one.

JACK BANGS	Mister. I'm begging, 'kay? I'm begging. This is not some card club, 'kay? This is the Tomahawk. We're an international gaming destination. We're in guidebooks. You can't do this... you can't do this to me...
GABRIEL	Show's over.

GABRIEL	He won't tell us where it is. The Powwow Safe.
JACK BANGS	I don't know... what you're...

GABRIEL	THE POWWOW SAFE! WHERE IS THE POWWOW SAFE!
JACK BANGS	What... Powwow...
GABRIEL	The Powwow Safe where you steal your money! Where you cheat your Indians!
JACK BANGS	I don't steal any --

JACK BANGS	...so where is he?
GABRIEL	Where is he?! Where is he?!
JACK BANGS	He's not Nick Mason...

JACK BANGS	I can't go back to Vegas...
GABRIEL	OPEN IT!!!

JACK BANGS	I CAN'T! GO BACK! I CAN'T! GO BACK! I CAN'T! GO BACK!
GABRIEL	GO!!!

JACK BANGS	There's no snow in Vegas, 'kay? They don't know it, they don't want it, they got laws against the stuff. They got Egypt down there, right, they got Monte Carlo, Hawaii, they got ancient Rome, but where's the Winter Castle, right? Where's the Swiss miss Chalet? Where's the Big Fucking Igloo?
YOUNG GOVERNOR	We understand you, Mr. Bangs.
JACK BANGS	Capades? They don't do it. Mittens? Outlawed. Why?
YOUNG GOVERNOR	We're aware of your position.
JACK BANGS	Because down there this is money. Up here this is heat.  You wanted Vegas quality, I brought it to you. You wanted Vegas press, I gave it to you. But guys, please, guys... I can't get you Vegas profits... till one of ya does some spirit dance and does something about this snow.

JACK BANGS	I'm bringing in this great showroom act next week; these three Russian girls, they look like Meryl Streep, they can juggle anything.
YOUNG GOVERNOR	Mr. Bangs.
JACK BANGS	Guys. We're doing it right, here. $5.99 prime rib? Nobody does that in Michigan. Nobody.
YOUNG GOVERNOR	The tribe is concerned that many of your... new ideas are not resulting in any new venues.
JACK BANGS	I'm putting liquor in the drinks, I'm giving 10-times odds on craps, I got the girls showing sixteen-percent more skin! Show me another buffet's gonna offer you Coke and Pepsi! Whaddya want me to do?!
YOUNG GOVERNOR	We want to see our casino making money again, Mr. Bangs. Making money for our community.

JUMPY	The Powwow Safe?
RUDY	His personal safe, he gave it a name. Now you're telling me they've taken his office, put the buffet there? Then who knows what else they changed.

JUMPY	What about the Powwow Safe?
RUDY	What?
JUMPY	The Powwow Safe. The secret safe. You said the manager's got a safe in his office where he hides skim money.
RUDY	Oh. Right. Yeah. That's, uh upstairs. Uh. Here. Powwow Safe.

JUMPY	Hi, Santa Claus, how are you. He's with Sears, I'm with Wal-Mart, twas the season...
RUDY	We're all outta gifts, boys and girls, but we got charitable donations!

PUG	Goddamn, Merlin. There any part of the day you don't smoke?
MERLIN	There anytime you don't got a mouthful of shit?
PUG	Cancer-sucker.
MERLIN	Acid-chewer.

PUG	That motherfucker --
MERLIN	And Monster... he was talking with the casino manager. Nick was talking to him.

PUG	Knew a guy in Joliet, smoked ten packs a day like you. His lungs got so black they couldn't find 'em with an x-ray.
MERLIN	That right? Shit. I used to run rigs for a guy loved your chaw there. Shit rotted out his tongue, had to build him one outta silicon so the poor boy could talk. You ever see a motherfucker with a silicon fucking tongue?

MERLIN	This trucker? Met a girl in a bar one night, she didn't know his situation. He's drunk, she's drunk, they get to mackin' hot and heavy and the woman swallows it. His tongue. Sucks it right down.
PUG	My guy would walk into a room, set off the goddamn sprinklers.
MERLIN	His lips went next. You ever see some silicon-fucking-lips?

MERLIN	I got a bacon too; there another bacon in there?
PUG	I got a bacon for him and a bacon for me; there's four cheeseburgers and two roast beefs --
MERLIN	Somebody better give me something with some goddamn bacon --

MERLIN	Thanks, sister. How are ya.
WAITRESS	Fuckin' freezing.
MERLIN	Hell yeah. You work here long?
WAITRESS	Five years. Since it opened.
MERLIN	How long ago was your makeover?
WAITRESS	My what?!
MERLIN	No, the place. The remodeling. moving everything around.

RUDY	...but I got a girl to be with, rum- pum-pum-pum...
MERLIN	Hi, Nick.

MERLIN	You want that for here or to go?
RUDY	I been in Iron Mountain for two years, truck driver. I do one more crime, I'm back there for good, so fuck you and fuck your sister and fuck your trucker friends. You want to hear about some goddamn job of mine? I want some hot-goddamn-chocolate.

MERLIN	Buffet. Whaddya think it is?
RUDY	Buffet is by the goddamn bar! What the hell kind of map is this?!

MERLIN	Having romance problems, Romeo?
RUDY	Not with you.

MERLIN	What the hell was that about --
RUDY	He didn't recognize me. Back off, willya? He didn't recognize me.

RUDY	What you gotta worry about first is the guards. Place doesn't look much richer than when I worked there, so let's figure you're gonna have to deal with ten of 'em. There'll be two on the floor, walking the room, that leaves eight up above. Eyes in the sky. They see something up, they're the ones who'll hit the silent alarm and you're fucked.
MERLIN	How do we take them out?
RUDY	You gotta get someone upstairs.
MERLIN	How do we do that?

MERLIN	What about the money?
RUDY	You lock down security, you move behind the cage. You hit the Count Room. There'll be a guy in there but he's got no guns; room's accessed by another code. Cashiers'll know it. They'll have alarms.

RUDY	Here's my present to you, truck drivers --
MERLIN	Where the hell's Gabriel?

MERLIN	DROP 'EM! DROP, DROP, DROP!!!
RUDY	DROP THE GUNS! NOW!

MERLIN	You knew there were guns in here!
RUDY	Merlin, I didn't know --
MERLIN	You got Pug killed! You tried to get ME killed! You just lost your Get- Outta-Jail-Free --
RUDY	I promise you, I didn't know!

ZOOK	Monsters in the gelatin...
NICK	It's a roach, guy --
ZOOK	There are monsters...  ...in the gelatin...
NICK	Oh, man --

ZOOK	THERE ARE MONSTERS IN THE GELATIN!
NICK	Fuckin, Zookerman --
ZOOK	THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN! THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN!

NICK	What's the first thing, man? What's the first thing you're gonna do?
RUDY	Haven't thought about it.
NICK	Hell you haven't.
RUDY	Get to thinking about it, it won't happen.
NICK	We walk outta here, we hit that road, what's the first thing you're gonna do.
RUDY	Ain't there yet.
NICK	Three days, man.
RUDY	Not yet.
NICK	Fuckin' Christmas, man. Fuckin, Christmas on the outs.

RUDY	Hot chocolate.
NICK	What?
RUDY	Get a hot mug of chocolate.  First thing I'm gonna do.
NICK	And a slice of pecan pie, right?
RUDY	And some pecan pie.

NICK	She's gonna be out there, man. Right there. Right there waiting.
RUDY	Yeah.
NICK	Gonna walk out of this shitstorm and right into her arms.
RUDY	Yeah.
NICK	Got us a motel out Highway 5, bringing her own damn sheets, you read that part? Silk damn sheets. Lock ourselves in the whole week, drinking wine, taking baths, man, see if they got those room service steaks... anything I want to do. Remember when she wrote that? Anything I want...
RUDY	Yeah. Fuckin' Christmas.

NICK	Why you gotta say a thing like that.
RUDY	I'm just saying.
NICK	Why you gotta. We were gonna give you a ride someplace, man. Now I just don't know.
RUDY	I'm just talking.
NICK	Fuck your hot chocolate, Rudy.

RUDY	For twenty-five, she sounds pretty mature.
NICK	Yeah. You grow up in Detroit, you get matured real quick.

RUDY	What if she sees you, man, sees what you look like... and it's not there. You just don't do it for her.
NICK	Me and her got a connection.  Read this part. Read the part about stuffing her stocking.

RUDY	She's using a new perfume.
NICK	No, I think that's just oranges. She writes here she's eating oranges.
RUDY	Oh.
NICK	Shoulda written to that magazine, Rudy. I'm gonna walk outta here, walk right into a relationship. Not some one-nighter, man... a relationship. You? You're gonna walk outta here with bus fare. Searching for the drunkest skirt in the room.
RUDY	Mornin', gorgeous. More egg nog?
NICK	Shoulda written, Rudy...

RUDY	All I want... is to make it to Sidnaw, and sit down for Christmas dinner. Watch some ball with my old man, sleep in my old bed, and have leftovers for bout six months.
NICK	Thought you hated Sidnaw.
RUDY	Just taste that Christmas turkey.
NICK	Thought you hate your old man.
RUDY	Five years, Nicky. Five years.  I just want to go home.

NICK	Don't look like he missed the sunlight.
RUDY	Pinscher told me Alamo thinks I'm the one ratted on him beating up Cree. Since I was there, I saw it, he thinks I got him sent to solitary.
NICK	Aw, Rudy.

NICK	So maybe after our week beneath the sheets, we'll head down to Motor City for New Year's. She says her roommate's skipping town for a few days, have the place to ourselves. Remember how her brother's a truck driver down there? I'm thinking he might be able to help get me some work.
RUDY	What, working security?
NICK	No, I'm through with that shit. Ashley's right. Gotta start doing something I got a stake in. Get a business going.
RUDY	I don't know, I've seen the business world.
NICK	Hotwiring cars, Rudy, does not qualify as a small business. Chop shop consultant; doesn't work on a resume.

NICK	Just a roach, Zook.
RUDY	Good for you. Protein.

NICK	Rudy, don't move --
RUDY	Two days, we got two days! Don't do nothing. Don't touch nothing --

NICK	Don't move, Rudy!
RUDY	Standing right here, man!

RUDY	GUARD! GUARD!
NICK	Alamo...
RUDY	GUARD!!!

NICK	Jesus, Rudy --
RUDY	Take it, man! You're all right! Hold it in! GUARD!
NICK	Oh, fuck, Rudy... oh Jesus...
RUDY	GUARD!!!
NICK	Ash... Ashley...
RUDY	No, man! No, no, no!
NICK	Tell her... I'll be there ...
RUDY	You're GONNA be there! We're getting outta here! TAKE IT!
NICK	Tell Ashley... I...
RUDY	YOU TELL HER!
NICK	...be with her...

RUDY	NO!!!
NICK	...for Christmas...
RUDY	NICK!!!

NICK	Millie here used to serve drinks to these gunrunning truckers, real big talkers, talking bout a real score one day. I was in the Mountain, man, what the hell, why not let her get friendly with 'em? Let her tell 'em an idea she had, 'bout writing guys in prison. Getting one who could show 'em a sure thing.
RUDY	She set them up. All of them.
NICK	Why not have her pretend to find me? Pretend to write me and reel me in? Tell her new trucker-man she'd pose as some sister of his named Ashley?
RUDY	And you set me up.
NICK	Always wanted to rob that casino, Rudy. Way back when I worked there. What better way than to get some guys to rob it for me.

NICK	Paid the Alamo ten bucks to put the shiv in me. He's a lifer, what does he care. Paid a hospital guard fifty to put out the story I was dead. Once the wound healed up...  Got out of the Mountain this morning. And tonight I'm a rich man.
RUDY	How'd you know I'd do it.
NICK	Do what?
RUDY	Walk outta there and tell her I was you.

NICK	Hell, you never needed to convince Ashley you were me. Just the dumb fucking truckers. I figured I'd talked enough about the Tomahawk in the pen for you to get by --
RUDY	Talked about the old man's weapons stash, probably forgot I'd remember
NICK	Hm. Well. They'd have killed you if you weren't me, Rudy. We knew you'd start convincing 'em soon enough.

NICK	They had the weapons and the willpower. We just gave them their inside man.
RUDY	You gave them me.
NICK	I gave them me.  Said some nice things about me, Rudy. I appreciate it. But don't worry. I do love her. And she loves me. You had that right all along.

RUDY	That was my card, pop! My card! You hit for my card!
OLD TIMER	I... sorry, Mister...
RUDY	That was my king!
OLD TIMER	Well...sorry...

RUDY	POP! That was My card!
OLD TIMER	But... I had a five...
RUDY	You're hitting for MY cards!

RUDY	Switch seats with me.
OLD TIMER	What? No...
RUDY	You're taking my money. Switch seats with me. Switch seats with me if you're not taking my money --
OLD TIMER	I'm ninety-two years old --
RUDY	Then get yourself another table! You're hitting Santa's cards and you're taking Santa's money!
OLD TIMER	There is no other table --
RUDY	THEY'LL OPEN ONE!

PUG	Watch your mouth, man. It's Christmas.
RUDY	I'M NOT NICK!

PUG	Start talkin
RUDY	Who the hell made this map.

PUG	That's what it looks like!
RUDY	Since when? What the hell is this room?

PUG	Map is kinda dirty, Monster...
RUDY	They changed the layout.

PUG	Without having them hit the alarms.
RUDY	I got an idea on that one. Once you're up there, you gotta hold those guards down till some backup can get there. There's a security camera room that videotapes everything. You've gotta destroy every last one of those tapes.

HILDA	You should see it, Professor Barnhardt! You should go out and see it for yourself!
BARNHARDT	Thanks -- I'm enjoying it right here.
HILDA	The whole city has stopped. People are running around like ants!
BARNHARDT	What a brilliant idea. I never would have thought of it.

BARNHARDT	What about the people who are coming to the meeting tonight? Have they all arrived?
HILDA	I talked to most of them this morning... They were all very curious about the meeting.
BARNHARDT	Good. Did you speak to our friend Mr. Carpenter?
HILDA	He'll be there at 8:30.
BARNHARDT	Tell me, Hilda -- does all this frighten you -- does it make you feel insecure?
HILDA	Yes, sir -- it certainly does!
BARNHARDT	That's good, Hilda. I'm glad.

BARNHARDT	You wrote this?
KLAATU	It was a clumsy way to introduce myself -- but I understand you're a difficult man to see.  I thought you'd have the solution by this time.
BARNHARDT	Not yet. That's why I wanted to see you.

BARNHARDT	Yes -- that will reproduce the first- order terms. But what about the effect of the other terms?
KLAATU	Almost negligible... With variation of parameters, this is the answer.
BARNHARDT	How can you be so sure? Have you tested this theory?
KLAATU	I find it works well enough to get me from one planet to another.  I understand you've called a meeting to study our space ship.
BARNHARDT	As though unsure of what he's heard) Yes -- yes, I have.
KLAATU	My name is Klaatu.  I spent two days at your Walter Reed Hospital. Room 309. My doctor's name was Major White -- and I had a very attractive nurse called Ruth, who's getting married next Wednesday.  If you are not interested -- or if you intend to turn me over to your Army -- we needn't waste any more time.

KLAATU	You have faith, Professor Barnhardt
BARNHARDT	It isn't faith that makes good science, Mr. Klaatu. Its curiosity.  Sit down, please. I have several thousand questions to ask you.
KLAATU	I would like to explain something of my mission here.
BARNHARDT	That was my first question.
KLAATU	It was my intention to discuss this officially -- with all the nations of the Earth -- but I was not allowed the Opportunity. I have come to realize since that your mutual fears and suspicions are merely the normal reactions of a primitive society.  We know from scientific observation that you have discovered a rudimentary kind of atomic energy. We also know that you are experimenting with rockets.
BARNHARDT	Yes -- that is true.
KLAATU	In the hands of a mature civilization, these would not be considered weapons of aggression. But in the hands of your people--  We've observed your aggressive tendencies, and we don't trust you with such power.
BARNHARDT	If you mean that you are afraid of us--
KLAATU	We want to be sure you don't make -- let us say -- an unfortunate mistake. We know the potentiality of these developments and we are disturbed to find them in the hands of children... You see, we've had atomic energy for five thousand of your years.  We discarded instruments like this many centuries ago.  So long as you were limited to fighting among yourselves -- with your primitive tanks and planes -- we were unconcerned. But soon you will apply atomic energy to space ships -- and then you become a threat to the peace and security of other planets. That, of course, we cannot tolerate.
BARNHARDT	These other planets -- do they have peace and security?
KLAATU	We had our atomic wars -- thousands of years ago.  After that we fought with bows and arrows. Then, slowly, we learned that fighting is no solution -- that aggression leads to chaos.
BARNHARDT	We scientists understand this. Even we primitive scientists.  What exactly is the nature of your mission, Mr. Klaatu?
KLAATU	I came here to warn you that, by threatening danger, your planet faces danger -- very grave danger. I am prepared, however, to offer a solution.
BARNHARDT	Would you care to be more specific?
KLAATU	What I have to say must be said to all concerned.  It is too important to be entrusted to any individual.

BARNHARDT	I gather that your efforts on the official level were not entirely successful.
KLAATU	I come to you as a last resort -- and I confess that my patience is wearing thin.  Must I take drastic action in order to get a hearing?
BARNHARDT	What -- what sort of action do you mean?
KLAATU	Violent action -- since that seems to be the only thing you people understand.  Leveling the island of Manhattan, perhaps -- or dropping the Rock of Gibraltar into the sea.

BARNHARDT	Would you be willing to meet with the group of scientists I am calling together?. Perhaps you could explain your mission to them, and they in turn could present it to their various peoples.
KLAATU	That's what I came to see you about.

BARNHARDT	It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too easily ignored -- or misunderstood. We must get important men from every field. Educators -- philosophers -- church leaders -- men of vision and imagination -- the finest minds in the world.
KLAATU	I leave that in your hands.
BARNHARDT	You'd have no objection to revealing yourself at this meeting?
KLAATU	No -- not at all.
BARNHARDT	What about your personal safety in the meantime? What about the Army -- and the police?
KLAATU	My name is Carpenter and I'm a very earthy character living in a respectable boarding house.
BARNHARDT	I'm afraid I can't offer you any real protection. I have no influence in cases of inter-planetary conspiracy.
KLAATU	I'm sure I'll be quite safe until the meeting.
BARNHARDT	One thing, Mr. Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject your proposals. What is the alternative?
KLAATU	I'm afraid you have no alternative. In such, a case the planet Earth would have to be--  --eliminated.

BARNHARDT	Such power exists?
KLAATU	I assure you such power exists.

BARNHARDT	The people who came to the meeting must be made to realize this. They must understand what is at stake.  You mentioned a demonstration of force--
KLAATU	Yes.
BARNHARDT	Would such, a demonstration be possible before the meeting?
KLAATU	Yes -- of course.
BARNHARDT	Something that would dramatize for them and for their people the seriousness of the situation. Something that would affect the entire planet.
KLAATU	That can easily be arranged.
BARNHARDT	I wouldn't want you to harm anybody -- or destroy anything.
KLAATU	Why don't you leave it to me? I'll think of something.
BARNHARDT	Maybe a little demonstration.
KLAATU	Something dramatic -- but not destructive.  It's quite an interesting problem.  Would day after tomorrow be all right? Say about noon?

BOBBY	Bet he is, Mom. Bet he's out looking for that space man.
HELEN	I think we've all been hearing too much about "space men."

BOBBY	Can I help you look for the space man? Can I?  I know what he looks like! He's got a square head -- and, three great big eyes!
HELEN	That's enough, Bobby. I think it's time you went to bed.

BOBBY	Hi Mom!
HELEN	Hello, darling.  Good evening, Mr. Carpenter.

HELEN	Did you have a nice day, dear?
BOBBY	Boy, we had a swell time. Didn't we, Mr. Carpenter?

HELEN	Come on, Bobby. Time to go to bed.
BOBBY	Mom -- why does Mr. Carpenter have to go down to the police station?
HELEN	I -- I don't know, dear... Perhaps there's some mistake.

BOBBY	We sure had fun today. We saw the space ship and we went to see Professor Barnhardt -- and--
HELEN	Professor Barnhardt.
BOBBY	Yeah, sure. Mom, do I have to go to school tomorrow?
HELEN	Of course, dear.
BOBBY	Aw, gee, Mom -- I had plans to play with Mr. Carpenter.

HELEN	Go to bed, darling. You can finish that in the morning.
BOBBY	Okay.

HELEN	Bobby -- I think it would be better if we didn't see quite so much of Mr. Carpenter
BOBBY	Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend... And he's awful good in arithmetic. He even helps Professor Barnhardt.
HELEN	Did you and Mr. Carpenter really go to see Professor Barnhardt?
BOBBY	Sure we did! He wasn't there but we went to see him. And Mr. Carpenter showed him how to do his arithmetic.

BOBBY	Mom -- is there something wrong with Mr. Carpenter?
HELEN	What do you mean, dear?
BOBBY	I mean -- on account of that policeman last night.  You think he's a bank robber, maybe? Or a gangster?
HELEN	No, dear, of course not. He's a very nice man. I Just think he might prefer to be left alone. Now you get to bed and forget about it.  'Night, darling.

HELEN	Bobby--! What are you doing up at this hour?
BOBBY	I couldn't go to sleep, Mom. I had to tell you!
HELEN	Tell me what?
BOBBY	I followed Mr. Carpenter -- right after you left -- and, gee, Mom, where do you think he went? Right into the space ship!
HELEN	Now, Bobby, just a minute--
BOBBY	Honest, Mom, I saw him. It just opened up and he walked right in. And that great big iron man was moving around!
HELEN	Bobby, you've been dreaming again.
BOBBY	No, I haven't, Mom. I promise you... I saw it!

HELEN	Now think back hard. You didn't follow Mr. Carpenter at all, did you? You haven't even been out of the house.
BOBBY	Yes, I have!
HELEN	You didn't really see the space ship. You just thought you did.

HELEN	He gave these to you?
BOBBY	Well, not exactly. I gave him two dollars.

BOBBY	Gee, Mom, do you think maybe he's a diamond smuggler?
HELEN	Come on, darling -- we're going up to bed.

BOBBY	Oh, boy -- can I, Mom?
HELEN	Yes, dear. Come on now.  Bobby, your shoes are soaking!
BOBBY	Yeah -- the grass was kind of wet.

BOBBY	Are you an FBI man?
KLAATU	No -- I'm afraid not.

KLAATU	Bobby -- who's the greatest man in America today?
BOBBY	Gee -- I don't know... The space man, I guess.
KLAATU	I was speaking of earth men. I meant the greatest philosopher -- the greatest thinker.

BOBBY	Well -- Professor Barnhardt, I guess. He's the greatest scientist in the world.
KLAATU	He lives here in Washington, doesn't he?
BOBBY	Sure. Right near where my mother works.
KLAATU	Where is that?
BOBBY	Department of Commerce. She's a secretary.  They have a man they call the Secretary, but he isn't at all. My mother's a real secretary.  Mr. Carpenter -- now can we go see the space ship?

BOBBY	Boy, I'll bet he's strong. I bet he could knock down a whole building.
KLAATU	I shouldn't be at all surprised.

BOBBY	Gee, I'd like to get inside and see how it works. What do you think makes it go?
KLAATU	Well -- atomic power, I would imagine.
BOBBY	I thought that was only for bombs.
KLAATU	No. It's for a lot of other things, too.
BOBBY	You think it can go faster than an F- 36?
KLAATU	Yes -- I think so.

KLAATU	Maybe four thousand miles an hour. And outside the Earth's atmosphere a good deal faster.
BOBBY	Gee! How could they make a landing?
KLAATU	Well -- there are several ways to reduce landing speed. You see, the velocity--

BOBBY	You think they'll ever find him?
KLAATU	I don't know, Bobby. I'm inclined to doubt it.
BOBBY	Mr. Carpenter -- what does velocity mean?
KLAATU	Velocity is the time rate of change of position.

KLAATU	Bobby -- I have an idea. Let's go see Professor Barnhardt and find out how he talks.
BOBBY	You're just kidding, aren't you?
KLAATU	Wouldn't you like to meet him?
BOBBY	Well, sure I would, but --  Aw, I'll bet you'd be scared.
KLAATU	We can scare him more than he can scare us.

BOBBY	What does that mean?
KLAATU	It's a problem in celestial mechanics.
BOBBY	Bet he's the only one in the world knows the answer.
KLAATU	He doesn't know the answer. And he'll never get it that way.

KLAATU	Did all these people die in wars?
BOBBY	Sure. Didn't you ever hear of Arlington Cemetery?
KLAATU	No -- I'm afraid not.
BOBBY	Mr. Carpenter" -- you don't seem to know about anything.
KLAATU	I'll tell you, Bobby -- I've been away for a long time. Very far away.
BOBBY	Is it different where you've been?  Don't they have places like this?
KLAATU	They have cemeteries. But not like this one... You see, they don't have any wars.

BOBBY	Go to the movies.
KLAATU	All right.
BOBBY	No foolin'? Will you?
KLAATU	Certainly.  Tell me, Bobby -- do you have to have money to go there?

BOBBY	I've got some money. My mother gave me two dollars.
KLAATU	No -- I want to take you to the movies.  Do you think they'd accept these?

BOBBY	Gee -- those look like diamonds!
KLAATU	Some places that's what people use for money. They're easy to carry -- and they don't wear out.
BOBBY	Bet they're worth about a million dollars.
KLAATU	Would you give me your two dollars for a couple of them?
BOBBY	Well, sure, but--

BOBBY	Let's not say anything to my mother about this, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU	Why not, Bobby?
BOBBY	She doesn't like me to steal from people.

KLAATU	Mrs. Benson -- this is Mr. Brady.
BOBBY	Mr. Brady's a cop.

KLAATU	We certainly did.
BOBBY	We went to the movies -- and we had ice cream cones -- and we went to see Daddy--

BOBBY	Aw, gee -- we didn't finish our story.
KLAATU	We'll finish it tomorrow... Goodnight, Bobby.
BOBBY	Goodnight.

KLAATU	All you have to remember is, first find the common denominator -- then subtract.
BOBBY	Thanks, Mr. Carpenter.
KLAATU	I'll say goodnight again.

KLAATU	Bobby -- have you a flashlight?
BOBBY	Yeah -- sure.  It's a real Boy Scout flashlight.

BOBBY	What do you want it for, Mr. Carpenter?
KLAATU	Why -- the light in my room went out.  Thank you, Bobby. Goodnight.

MAJOR	The skeletal structure is completely normal.  Same for the major organs - heart, liver, spleen, kidneys.
CAPTAIN	And the lungs are the same as ours. Must mean a similar atmosphere -- similar pressure.  How old do you think he is?
MAJOR	Oh, I'd say forty-five.
CAPTAIN	He told me this morning when I examined him. He's seventy-eight.
MAJOR	I don't believe it.
CAPTAIN	Their life expectancy is a hundred and thirty.
MAJOR	How does he explain that?
CAPTAIN	He says their medicine is that much more advanced.  He was very nice about it. But he made me feel like a third-class witch doctor.

HARLEY	My name is Harley -- Secretary to the President  I've been told that you speak our language -- that your name is Mr. Klaatu.
KLAATU	Just Klaatu.
HARLEY	The President asked me to convey his deepest apologies for what has happened. We all feel--
KLAATU	Sit down, Mr. Harley.

HARLEY	I'm sure I don't have to point out that your arrival was something of a surprise.  Had you been traveling long?
KLAATU	About five months -- your months.
HARLEY	You must have come a long way.
KLAATU	About 250 million of your miles.

HARLEY	Naturally we're very curious to know where it is you come from.
KLAATU	From another planet. Let's just say that we're neighbors.

HARLEY	It's rather difficult for us to think of another planet as a neighbor.
KLAATU	I'm afraid, in the present situation you'll have to learn to think that way.
HARLEY	The present situation?
KLAATU	I mean the reasons for my coming here.
HARLEY	We're very curious about that, too. Would you care to talk about it?
KLAATU	I'd be glad to.  Not now, of course -- with you alone.
HARLEY	Perhaps you'd rather discuss it personally with the President--
KLAATU	This is not a personal matter, Mr. Harley. It concerns all the people on your planet.
HARLEY	I -- I'm not sure I understand--
KLAATU	I want to meet with representatives from all the nations of the Earth.
HARLEY	I'm afraid that would be a little awkward. It's -- it's completely without precedent. And there are practical considerations -- the time involved -- the enormous distances.
KLAATU	I traveled 250 million miles. What about your United Nations?
HARLEY	You know about the United Nations?
KLAATU	We've been monitoring your radio broadcasts for a good many years. That's how we learned your languages. Lately, we've been getting your television also.
HARLEY	You must have a rather strange impression of us.
KLAATU	The first two years of television we were convinced that all you did was wrestle.

HARLEY	I'm sure you recognize from our broad- casts the evil forces that have produced the tension in our world. Surely you would agree--
KLAATU	I am not concerned, Mr. Harley, with the internal affairs of your planet. I consider that to be your business -- not mine.
HARLEY	I was only hoping to make you understand.
KLAATU	My mission here is not to solve your petty squabbles. It concerns the existence of every last creature who lives on Earth.
HARLEY	Perhaps if you could explain a little--
KLAATU	I intend to explain. To all the nations -- simultaneously.  How do we proceed, Mr. Harley?

HARLEY	We could call a special meeting of the General Assembly... But of course the UN doesn't represent all of the nations.
KLAATU	Then why not a meeting of all the Chiefs of State?
HARLEY	Believe me, you don't understand. They wouldn't sit down at the same table.

HARLEY	I will make that recommendation to the President.  I must tell you in all honesty that I'm extremely dubious about the results.
KLAATU	Apparently I'm not as cynical about Earth's people as you are.
HARLEY	I've been dealing in Earth's politics a good deal longer than you have.  Goodnight, sir.

HARLEY	Good afternoon.  I'm glad to see you up and around.
KLAATU	Thank you... Have you any news?
HARLEY	Not very good news, I'm afraid.  The President accepted your suggestion and cabled the invitations for a meeting last night.  Let me read you some of the replies.  "The Premier wishes to inform the Government of the United States that it will be impossible for him to attend the meeting suggested by the President unless the meeting is held in Moscow."  "The suggestion of the President regarding the possibility of a meeting in Moscow would be unacceptable to Her Majesty's Government at the present time. Representation could be sent only if the meeting were held in Washington."  Well -- there you have it.

HARLEY	I tried to make you understand. The suspicions -- the jealousies -- the mistrust--  Surely you realize that my government has done everything in its power--
KLAATU	It's not your government I'm thinking about. It's your world.
HARLEY	Now that you understand the situation more clearly, perhaps you'd like to discuss the matter with the President
KLAATU	I will not speak to any one nation or group of nations.  I don't intend to add my contribution to your childish jealousies and suspicions.
HARLEY	Our problems are very complex, Mr. Klaatu. You mustn't judge us too harshly.
KLAATU	I can judge only by what I see.
HARLEY	Your impatience is quite understandable.
KLAATU	I am impatient with stupidity. My people have learned to live without it.
HARLEY	I'm afraid my people haven't.  I'm very sorry -- I wish it were otherwise.

KLAATU	Before making any decisions, I think I should get out among your people -- become familiar with the basis for these strange, unreasoning attitudes.
HARLEY	Under the circumstances I'm afraid that will be impossible.

TOM	We're all set. I picked up some sandwiches and put gas in the car. And the radio's still busted, so me can forget about the space man for today.
HELEN	There's only one thing -- I haven't been able to arrange for anyone to stay with Bobby.  I don't suppose we could take him with us?
TOM	Well, we could--
HELEN	There's always somebody here, but today of course they've all got plans.

HELEN	It was a wonderful day.
TOM	You still haven't answered my question.
HELEN	You know how I feel, Tom. I just want to think it over.
TOM	The boss is leaving for Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was getting married -- with two dependents--
HELEN	You're a good salesman -- but I've got to think about it.
TOM	A good insurance salesman wouldn't give you time to think.

HELEN	Hello--
TOM	You ready?
HELEN	I will be in just a minute.
TOM	The picture starts at eight-fifty.
HELEN	I was talking to Mr. Carpenter.
TOM	I hope Mr. Carpenter won't think I'm intruding.

HELEN	Oh, Tom, that was awful.
TOM	I'm sorry. I guess I'm just tired of hearing about Mr. Carpenter.  I don't like the way he's attached himself to you and Bobby. After all, what do you know about him?

TOM	He's not there.  But look what I found in his room
HELEN	Is it real?
TOM	Looks real to me.

TOM	I wonder if we ought to--
HELEN	Bobby and I have had enough excitement for tonight.
TOM	You think it's all right for you to stay here?
HELEN	I've got a good lock on my door.  And Bobby's going to sleep in my room tonight.

TOM	I'm at Bleeker's getting an appraisal on that diamond. I thought we might have lunch together.
HELEN	I -- I'm afraid I can't -- not right now. Can I talk to you later?. Yes, that'll be fine. 'Bye.

HELEN	Tom -- I've been trying to get you all afternoon--
TOM	Come on in.

TOM	I've got some terrific news about your friend, Mr. Carpenter.
HELEN	What about him?
TOM	Helen, he's the man from the space ship!  I had that diamond checked at three different places. Nobody on earth's ever seen a stone like that! After what Bobby told us, that's enough for me. Why is it nobody knows anything about him? Why hasn't he got any money?
HELEN	All right, Tom -- it's true. I know it's true.
TOM	How do you know?
HELEN	Never mind about that.  You've got to promise me you won't say a word to anybody.
TOM	Are you crazy? After what happened today?
HELEN	You don't understand. You don't realize how important it is.
TOM	Important? Of course it's important. The point is we can do something about it.
HELEN	That's what I'm trying to tell you. We mustn't do anything about it. Believe me, Tom, I know what I'm talking about.
TOM	He's a menace to the whole world! It's our duty to turn him in.
HELEN	But he isn't a menace! He told me what he came here for.
TOM	He told you... Don't be silly, honey -- just because you like the guy.  You realize what this'd mean for us? I'd be the biggest man in the country. I could write my own ticket.
HELEN	Is that what you're thinking about?
TOM	Why not? Somebody's got to get rid of him.

HELEN	Tom, you mustn't -- ! You don't know what you're doing! It isn't just you and Mr. Carpenter. The rest of the world, is involved!
TOM	I don't care about the rest of the world!

TOM	You'll feel different when you see my picture in the papers.
HELEN	I feel different right now.
TOM	You wait and see. You're going to marry a big hero!
HELEN	I'm not going to marry anybody.

HELEN	I don't know how to thank you.
KLAATU	I enjoyed every minute of it.

KLAATU	Everyone seems so-- 
HELEN	Jittery is the word.

KLAATU	Bobby's the only person I know who isn't -- Jittery.
HELEN	He has his homework to keep him occupied.
KLAATU	He's a fine boy, Mrs. Benson.
HELEN	Naturally I think so.
KLAATU	Warm and friendly and intelligent--  You know -- he's the only real friend I've made since I've been here.

HELEN	Mr. Carpenter -- this is none of my business, but -- why did that detective come here last night?
KLAATU	Oh -- they just wanted to ask me a few questions. Bobby and I tried to see Professor Barnhardt in the afternoon, but he wasn't in. Apparently they thought I was looking for secrets of some kind.

KLAATU	Excuse me. I was just going up to my room.
HELEN	Goodnight, Mr. Carpenter.

HELEN	Mr. Carpenter, I--  Goodnight.
KLAATU	Goodnight, my dear.

HELEN	Oh -- hello--
KLAATU	May I see you for a minute?
HELEN	I -- I was Just going to lunch.
KLAATU	May I walk out with you?

KLAATU	I saw Bobby this morning before he went to school--
HELEN	Yes--?
KLAATU	I want to know what he told you last night.
HELEN	I -- I didn't really pay much attention--  Bobby has such an active imagination.
KLAATU	Did you believe what he told you?  I have a reason for asking this -- a very important reason.

HELEN	What is it you want?
KLAATU	Before I ask you to be honest with me, perhaps I should be completely honest with you--

HELEN	What happened?
KLAATU	What time is it?

HELEN	Just twelve.
KLAATU	We'll be stuck here for a little while -- about thirty minutes.
HELEN	We could try pushing the other buttons.  I have a flashlight in my purse.
KLAATU	It won't work.

HELEN	Why not?
KLAATU	You see -- the electricity's been neutralized -- all over the world.

HELEN	You hold great hope for this meeting.
KLAATU	I can see no other hope for your planet. If the meeting should fail, then I'm afraid there is no hope.

KLAATU	It must be twelve-thirty.
HELEN	Yes -- Just exactly.

HELEN	Where are you going now?
KLAATU	Back to the boardinghouse. I'll be safe there for the afternoon -- and I can keep an eye on Bobby. He's the only other person who knows anything about--

HELEN	No, wait a minute -- there's someone else.
KLAATU	Who?
HELEN	Tom... He was there last night when Bobby told me what he saw.

KLAATU	I'm sure Barnhardt can arrange to hide me until the meeting.
HELEN	Where is the meeting going to be?
KLAATU	At the ship.

HELEN	It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's.
KLAATU	I'm worried about Gort. I'm afraid of what he might do -- if anything should happen to me.
HELEN	Gort?  But he's a robot. I mean -- without you, what could he do?
KLAATU	There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth.  If anything should happen to me, you must go to Gort. You must give him this message: "Klaatu barada nikto." Please repeat that.
HELEN	Klaatu barada nikto.
KLAATU	Remember those words.

KLAATU	Hello.
HELEN	I -- I thought you were--
KLAATU	I was.
HELEN	You mean he has the power of life and death?
KLAATU	No -- that is a power reserved to the Almighty Spirit.
KLAATU	This technique, in certain cases, can re-stimulate life for a limited period. It's a refinement of scientific principles known to your own people.
HELEN	But how -- how long--?
KLAATU	How long will I live?  That no one can say.

HELEN	We'll miss you very much -- Bobby and I.  He won't have anyone to play with.
KLAATU	He'll have you -- and Tom.
HELEN	No. That's all finished.
KLAATU	I'm sorry.
HELEN	I think I'm very lucky. You don't always get a chance to recognize a mistake before you make it.

HILDA	How dare you write on that blackboard!  Do you realize the Professor has been working on that problem for weeks?
KLAATU	He'll catch on to it in no time now.
HILDA	How did you get in here? And what do you want?
KLAATU	We came to see Professor Barnhardt.
HILDA	Well, he's not here. And he won't be back till this evening.  I think you'd better leave now. Unruffled, Klaatu turns to the desk and scribbles something on a scratch pad. He tears off the piece of paper and hands it to Hilda.
KLAATU	You might keep this.  I think the professor will want to get in touch with me.

TOM	Is it worth anything?
JEWELER	I have never seen such a stone. Will you please tell me where it came from?
TOM	That's what I wanted you to tell me.
JEWELER	There are no diamonds like this -- any place in the world.

TOM	You sure about that?
JEWELER	Would you like to sell it?
TOM	No -- no, thanks.
JEWELER	I'd give you a very good price.

LIEUTENANT	The Professor's secretary says she found you in Barnhardt's room, making marks on his blackboard.
KLAATU	I was only trying to be helpful. He was having difficulty with a problem.

LIEUTENANT	Oh, I see. He was having trouble and you were helping him out.
KLAATU	That's right.
LIEUTENANT	I suppose you know that Barnhardt does a lot of secret work for the Army.
KLAATU	In this case the secret wouldn't be worth much. He doesn't know the answer himself.
LIEUTENANT	But I suppose you know the answer.
KLAATU	It's really quite simple... The three- body problem, you know.

LIEUTENANT	Your name's Carpenter -- that right?  Any identification, Mr. Carpenter? Driver's license -- social security number?
KLAATU	No -- I'm afraid not.
LIEUTENANT	Well, how do I know who you are?
KLAATU	You don't.

LIEUTENANT	Okay -- book him and get him fixed up.  Looks like everybody's goin' nuts.
KLAATU	They would have killed this man?
LIEUTENANT	People get hysterical enough, they do anything.  Look, Mr. Carpenter -- if you can't identify yourself, I got to send you over to the Army.
KLAATU	How long will that take?
LIEUTENANT	They can tell right away. They've got a couple of doctors who saw this man in the hospital.  Take him over to G2.

KLAATU	May I suggest that you call the Professor?
LIEUTENANT	Get going, will you, Brady -- before I get mad!

BABY SUGGS	Why you never go back to Lady Jone's and learn your letters? You liked going there I remember. Seeing the other children. Then all a sudden, you stop.
DENVER	There was a boy there...said mama was a jailbird...said he could prove it..

BABY SUGGS	You got to go sometime. You got to go out there by yourself sometime.
DENVER	But you said...you said out there, there ain't no...what was that word?..no..de- fense. No de-fense.
BABY SUGGS	There ain't.
DENVER	Then what do I do?
BABY SUGGS	Know it, and go on out the yard. Go on.

STAMP PAID	Folks came.
BABY SUGGS	Folks come. Folks go.
STAMP PAID	Here, let me carry that.

BABY SUGGS	I got a delivery around here. Name of Tucker.
STAMP PAID	Yonder. Twin chestnuts in the yard.

STAMP PAID	Well?
BABY SUGGS	Well what?
STAMP PAID	This Saturday - you coming to Call or what?
BABY SUGGS	If I call them, and they come what on earth am I going to say to them.
STAMP PAID	Say the Word!

STAMP PAID	The Word. What you was put here to speak.
BABY SUGGS	That's the last thing they took from me.
STAMP PAID	But you got to do it. You got to. Can't nobody Call like you. You have to be there.
BABY SUGGS	What I have to do is get in my bed and lay down. I want to fix on something harmless in this world.
STAMP PAID	What world are you talking about? Ain't nothing harmless down here.
BABY SUGGS	Blue. That doesn't hurt nobody. Yellow neither.
STAMP PAID	You getting into bed to think about yellow?
BABY SUGGS	I likes yellow.
STAMP PAID	Then what? When you get through with blue and yellow, then what?
BABY SUGGS	Can't say. It's something can't be planned.
STAMP PAID	You blaming God. That what you're doing?
BABY SUGGS	No, Stamp. I ain't.
STAMP PAID	You saying whitefolks won. That what you saying?
BABY SUGGS	Those white things have taken all I had or dreamed. I'm saying ain't no bad luck in this world 'cept for white folks..They just don't know when to stop.
STAMP PAID	You saying nothing counts?
BABY SUGGS	I'm saying they came into my yard.
STAMP PAID	You saying God give up? Nothing left for us but pour out our own blood?
BABY SUGGS	I'm saying they came into my yard.
STAMP PAID	You punishing Him, ain't you?
BABY SUGGS	Not like He punished me.
STAMP PAID	You can't do that, Baby. It ain't right.
BABY SUGGS	Was a time I knew what was.
STAMP PAID	You still know.
BABY SUGGS	What I know is what I see: a nigger woman hauling shoes.
STAMP PAID	Aw, Baby.

STAMP PAID	We have to be steady. "These things too will pass". What you looking for? A miracle?
BABY SUGGS	No. I'm looking for what I was put here to look for: the back door.

SETHE	No. Sorry.
BABY SUGGS	Ah, winter in Ohio is especially rough if you've got an appetite for color.

BABY SUGGS	They'll be all right. I'm surprised they lasted here this long.
SETHE	I don't know. Maybe we should have moved.
BABY SUGGS	What'd be the point? Not a house in the country ain't packed to the rafters with some dead Negro's grief. We lucky our ghost is a baby. My husband spirit come back? Or yours? Don't talk to me! Ha..You lucky. You got one child left, still pullin at your skirts. Be thankful. I had eight. Eight with six fathers. Every one of them gone from me. Four taken, four chased and all, I expect, worrying somebody's house into evil. My first born - alls I can remember of her now is how she loved the burned bottom of bread. Her little hands..I wouldn't know'em if they slapped me. Can you beat that? Eight children and that's all I remember.
SETHE	You remember Halle.
BABY SUGGS	Oh, I remember bits and pieces of all of'em I guess..Halle, of course..I had Halle a lifetime. Almost twenty years... My two girls, sold and gone before I could even a heard about it, and them without their grown up teeth yet. My third child, my son after Halle...I let that straw boss have me for four months so's I could keep that boy. Next year, he had him traded for lumber anyway and me pregnant with his child. I couldn't love that child. I wouldn't. Not any of the rest either. God take what He would....and He did...
SETHE	The boys wouldn't have left if Halle were here.
BABY SUGGS	Those boys didn't even know him. You had six whole years of marriage to my Halle Fathered every one of your children. A blessing. I learned hard that a man's just a man, but a son like that...like Halle..now that's somebody.

BABY SUGGS	...All I remember is how she loved the bottom of burned bread. Her little hands...I wouldn't know 'em if they slapped me".
SETHE	..."Here. Look here. See this mark? If you can't tell me by my face, look here."

DENVER	..I swallowed her blood right along with my mother's milk. She played with me and always came to be with me whenever I needed her. Me and her waited for our daddy. I love her. I do. She never hurt me. I love my mother but I know she killed one of her own, and tender as she is with me, I'm scared of her because of it. All the time, I'm afraid the thing that happened that made it all right to kill her own, could happen again. Whatever it is, it comes from outside this house, outside the yard. So I never leave this house and I watch over the yard so it can't happen again ... I have to keep it away from my sister...I'll protect Beloved...'Cause She's mine...
DENVER	Beloved..She's mine       I am Beloved
BELOVED	and she is mine...

BELOVED	YOU HURT ME.
DENVER	I WILL PROTECT YOU.

DENVER	WATCH OUT FOR HER; SHE CAN GIVE YOU DREAMS.
BELOVED	WHERE ARE THE MEN WITHOUT SKIN?
DENVER	THE WHITEFOLK?

BELOVED	What do you know about it? I sleep where I want.
DENVER	You best leave that quilt alone. That was grandma's quilt.

SETHE	DID YOU COME FROM THE OTHER SIDE.
BELOVED	YES. I WAS ON THE OTHER SIDE.
SETHE	YOU CAME BACK BECAUSE OF ME?
BELOVED	YES.
SETHE	YOU NEVER FORGOT ME?
BELOVED	YOUR FACE IS MINE.

SETHE	WILL YOU STAY?
BELOVED	WHY DID YOU LEAVE ME WHO AM YOU?
SETHE	I WILL NEVER LEAVE YOU AGAIN.

BELOVED	CAN THEY GET IN HERE?
SETHE	NO. THEY TRIED ONCE BUT I STOPPED THEM. THEY WON'T EVER COME BACK...YOU MY BEST THING.

BELOVED	You don't sit with me!!
SETHE	Baby, don't be like that.
BELOVED	You don't sit with me!! I don't sit with people who leave me!
SETHE	Don't talk like that. Your mama loves you.
BELOVED	I had another dream last night.  The dead man laying on top of me and I had nothing to eat. And the ghosts without skin stuck their fingers in me and said Beloved in the dark and bitch in the light..
SETHE	Don't say those things. You forget about those dreams..
BELOVED	You gave me the bad dreams. You left me behind...
SETHE	Mama told you - I'd give up my own life, every minute, every hour of it to take back one of your tears baby...My children my best thing. You my best thing!
BELOVED	You're weren't nice to me..you didn't smile at me..
SETHE	That's not true. I told you, I had to get you out, make you safe...so's you and me could be together on the other side, forever..

BELOVED	I want somethin' sweet.
SETHE	We don't have nothing sweet no more, baby.
BELOVED	Not for me, you don't! You don't let me eat the pies...
SETHE	No. Since mama lost her job, we don't have no more pies..

PAUL	Well, is it now? How you getting along?
DENVER	Don't pay to complain.
PAUL	You on your way home?
DENVER	No. Got me an afternoon job at the shirt factory. Figure between that and my night work at the Bodwins I might be able to put something away for me and mama.
PAUL	They treating you right over at the Bodwins?
DENVER	More than all right. Miss Bodwin, she teach me stuff..Book stuff. She says I might go to Oberlin. She's experimenting on me.

PAUL	Your mother all right?
DENVER	No. Not a bit all right. Hasn't gotten out of bed since that day.
PAUL	You think I should stop by? Think she'd welcome it?
DENVER	I don't know. I think I've lost my mother, Paul D.

PAUL	That girl...You know, Beloved...
DENVER	Yes?
PAUL	She gone like they say?
DENVER	Haven't seen her since that day. Ella thinks she might be waiting in the woods for another chance but..I don't think so. Mama thinks she's gone for good. Says she can feel it.
PAUL	You think she sure 'nough your sister?
DENVER	At times. At other times I think she was...more. But who would know that better than you. I mean, you sure 'nough you her.

PAUL	Well, if you want my opinion...
DENVER	I don't. I have my own.
PAUL	You grown.
DENVER	Yes sir
PAUL	Well, good luck with the job.
DENVER	Thank you.

DENVER	And Paul D...you don't have to stay 'way, but be careful how you talk to my mama, hear?
PAUL	I will.

JANEY	Yes?
DENVER	May I come in?
JANEY	What you want?
DENVER	I want to see Mr. and Mrs. Bodwin.
JANEY	Miss Bodwin. They brother and sister, darlin.
DENVER	Oh.
JANEY	What you want'em for?
DENVER	I'm looking for work. I was thinking they might know of some.
JANEY	You Baby Sugg's kin, ain't you?
DENVER	Yes ma'am.
JANEY	I heard your mother took sick, that so?
DENVER	Yes ma'am..
JANEY	Well, come on in. You letting in flies.

JANEY	You know what? I've been here since I was fourteen and I remember like yesterday when Baby Suggs, holy, came here and sat right where you are. Whiteman name of Garner brought her. He and Mr. Bodwin were good friends. That's how she got that house you all live in. Other things too.
DENVER	Yes ma'am.
JANEY	I never went to those woodland services but she was always nice to me. Always. Never be another like her.
DENVER	I miss her.
JANEY	Bet you do. Everybody miss her. That was a good woman...Well, I don't know whether the Bodwins think it or not but they sure could use some extra help.
DENVER	Ya think?
JANEY	They getting older now and I can't take care of 'em like I used to. More and more they keep asking me to sleep over night. Now, I don't want to quit these people but they can't have all my days and nights too. I got my own family needs me. It'll take some convincing but maybe you could come after supper - take care of your mama during the day, then earn a little something at night, how's that?
DENVER	Fine. But what would I do at night?
JANEY	Be here. In case.
DENVER	In case of what?
JANEY	In case the house burn down or bad weather slops the roads so bad I can't get here on time or late guests needed cleaning up after. Anything.  Don't ask me what whitefolks need at night.

DENVER	They good whitefolks?
JANEY	Oh yeah. They good. Can't say they ain't good. I wouldn't trade them for another pair, tell you that. But you come back in a few days - give me a chance to lead'em to it. All right?

DENVER	I want to work, Miss Lady.
LADY JONES	Work? Start learnin your letters again?
DENVER	No. I mean work work.
LADY JONES	Well, what can you do?
DENVER	I can't do anything but I would learn it for you if you have a little extra.
LADY JONES	Extra?
DENVER	Food. My mama, she doesn't feel well. I couldn't stay away from her too long, cause of her condition but I could do chores in the mornings.
LADY JONES	Oh baby...I don't know anyone could pay anybody anything for work they did themselves...But if you all need to eat until your mother's well, all you have to do is say so...We have a church committee invented so nobody had to go hungry.
DENVER	No..No that won't do...

SETHE	Back stiff?
DENVER	OOh, yeah...Don't know if it's the floor or the skating.
SETHE	Could be that fall you took.
DENVER	That was fun.

DENVER	Should I wake her?
SETHE	No, let her rest.
DENVER	She likes to see you off in the morning.
SETHE	I'll make sure she does. But first I'm going  make up a nice, big breakfast against that cold outside.
DENVER	Won't you be late for work?
SETHE	Don't matter. First time I'll be late in nine years. No great trouble..Whatever goes on out there goes on with or without me showing up on time... don't matter...  The world is in this room, baby. This is all there is and all there needs to be.

DENVER	DON'T LOVE HER TOO MUCH.
SETHE	DO YOU FORGIVE ME?

SETHE	OUT THERE. WAY OFF.
DENVER	DADDY IS COMING FOR US.

SETHE	Morning.
DENVER	Morning, ma'am.

DENVER	MAMA!
SETHE	Hold back Denver - I'm fine..You..you go on upstairs. I'll do the cleaning up.
DENVER	But mama..
SETHE	Go upstairs I said!!

DENVER	Mama let me help you.
SETHE	NO!...She wanted me to do it.

SETHE	Nobody..no sir..that's right..nobody's going be doing that..nobody going be writing my daughter's characteristics on the animal side..no sir..I don't care..ain't laying that down..no sir. I refuse..that's right..that's right...
DENVER	Mama...Mama she's asleep. Why don't you eat something.
SETHE	She likes this dress...
DENVER	But you'll hurt your eyes doin it there. Come sit at the table.

SETHE	No...no...no..
DENVER	Mama?

ELLA	Where you been keeping yourself? I told John must be cold if Stamp stay inside.
STAMP PAID	Oh I been out.

ELLA	Out where?
STAMP PAID	Was over to Baby Suggs.
ELLA	What you want there? Somebody invite you in?
STAMP PAID	That's Baby's kin. I don't need no invite to look after her people.

STAMP PAID	Somebody new there. A woman. Thought you might know who she is.
ELLA	Ain't no new Negroes in this town I don't know about. What she look like? You sure that wasn't Denver?
STAMP PAID	I know Denver.
ELLA	You sure?
STAMP PAID	I know what I see.
ELLA	Might see anything at all at 124.
STAMP PAID	True.
ELLA	Better ask Paul D.
STAMP PAID	Can't locate him.
ELLA	He's sleeping in the church.
STAMP PAID	The church!
ELLA	Yeah. Asked Rev. Pike if he could stay in the cellar.
STAMP PAID	It's cold as charity in there! What he do that for? Any number'll take him in.
ELLA	Can't nobody read minds long distance. All he have to do is ask somebody.
STAMP PAID	Why? Why he have to ask? Can't nobody offer? What's going on? Since when a black man come to town have to sleep in the cellar like a dog?!
ELLA	Unrile yourself, Stamp. It's only a few days he been there.
STAMP PAID	NO! Shouldn't be no days! You know all about it and don't give him a hand? That don't sound like you, Ella. Me and you been pulling colored folk out the water more'n twenty years! Now you tell me you can't offer a man a bed?! A working man who can pay his own way?
ELLA	He ask, I give him anything.
STAMP PAID	Why's that necessary all of a sudden?
ELLA	I don't know him that well.
STAMP PAID	You know he's colored? What else there to know?
ELLA	Stamp, don't tear me up this morning! I don't feel like it.
STAMP PAID	It's her, ain't it?
ELLA	Her who?
STAMP PAID	Sethe. He took up with her and stayed in there and you don't want nothing to-
ELLA	Hold on! Don't jump if you can't see bottom!
STAMP PAID	Girl, give it up! We been friends too long to act like this.

ELLA	Well, who can tell what went on in there? I never even knew who Sethe was or none of her people.
STAMP PAID	You know she married Baby Suggs' boy.
ELLA	I ain't sure I know that. Baby never laid eyes on her till she showed up here. And how'd she make it and her husband didn't? And where is he? And how she have that baby in the woods by herself? Said a whitewoman help her. Shoot. You believe that? Well, I know what kind of white that was.
STAMP PAID	Aw, no, Ella.
ELLA	Anything white floating around in the woods - if it don't got a shotgun, it's something the Lord tells me I don't want no part of.
STAMP PAID	You was friends.
ELLA	Till she showed herself.
STAMP PAID	Ella.
ELLA	I ain't got no friends take a handsaw to their own children.
STAMP PAID	What's any of that got to do with Paul D.?
ELLA	What run him off? Tell me that!
STAMP PAID	I run him off.
ELLA	You?
STAMP PAID	I told him...Showed him the newspaper. About Sethe. Read it to him. He left that very day.
ELLA	You didn't tell me that. I thought he already knew.
STAMP PAID	He didn't know nothing. And nobody. Except her, from when they was at that place Baby Suggs was at.
ELLA	He knew Baby Suggs?
STAMP PAID	Sure he knew her. Her boy Halle, too.
ELLA	And he left when he found out what Sethe did?  What you say casts a different light on it, I guess...I thought-

ELLA	But you didn't come here talking 'bout Paul. You came asking about a new girl.
STAMP PAID	That's so.
ELLA	Well, Paul D. must know who she is. Or what she is.
STAMP PAID	You mind loaded with spirits. Everywhere you look you see one.
ELLA	You know as well as I do, Stamp, that people who die bad don't stay in the ground.

STAMP PAID	This is hard for me. But I got to do it. Two things I got to say to you. I'm a take the easy one first.
PAUL	If it's hard for you, might kill me dead. 
STAMP PAID	I come looking for you to ask your pardon. Apologize.
PAUL	For what?
STAMP PAID	You pick any house, any house where colored live. Pick any one and you welcome to stay there. I'm apologizing 'cause they didn't offer to tell you. But you welcome anywhere you want to be. My house. John and Ella. Miss Lady Jones..anybody. You choose. You ain't got to sleep in no cellar and I apologize for each and every night.
PAUL	Well I...I did get offered one place but I just wanted to be off by myself a spell.
STAMP PAID	Oh yeah. Oh that's load off. I thought everybody gone crazy.
PAUL	Just me.
STAMP PAID	You planning to do anything about it?
PAUL	Oh yeah. I got big plans.

PAUL	You remember your price, Stamp?
STAMP PAID	Never found out.
PAUL	I did. Down to the cent.$900. Always wondered though what Mrs. Garner got for my brother Paul F. Must of been more than nine hundred dollars cause she use that money for Sweet Home for almost two years. But then they hung my other brother Paul A. up on a tree so I guess he wasn't worth the same..I wonder what was Baby Suggs worth? And Halle? I wasn't surprised when I found out they tracked down Sethe all the way to Cincinatti. Her price must have been higher than all of us - her being property that reproduced itself without cost. A breeder.
STAMP PAID	No use thinking these things now.
PAUL	Oh but we got to. How we gonna know our price in the future? How are children's children's children gonna know what they cost? Who's gonna tell them? What are they gonna pay for us, if we free?
STAMP PAID	Children ain't gonna need to know that kind of thing.
PAUL	They'll know. They'll know as soon as they born. Cause it's inside us,Stamp. It'll be inside them. We'll pass it down. Schoolteacher didn't just change the outside, he changed the mind..and the blood..and what it carries...and what it's worth..
STAMP PAID	I don't believe that. I won't.
PAUL	There was a rooster named Mister down at Sweet Home. Last time I saw Halle, with that butter all over his face and me with an iron bit in my mouth, I saw Mister - sitting on a tub. He loved that tub. Like king on a throne. He was a hateful thing. Bloody and evil..But he was better than me.  Mister was allowed to be and stay what he was. Even if you cooked him you'd be cooking a rooster named Mister. But wasn't no way I'd ever be Paul D. again..Schoolteacher changed me. Was never no beating under Mr. Garner. Schoolteacher changed that. Why wouldn't a man run from that? Why wouldn't a man not work, kill, starve, pull out his own heart to stop feeling 'stead of feeling that? And it strikes me, it's got to be cause we were something else. And that something was less than a chicken sitting in the sun on a tub.

STAMP PAID	I said I had two things to say to you. I only told you one. I have to tell you the other.
PAUL	I don't want to know.
STAMP PAID	I was there Paul D...There in the yard. When she did it.
PAUL	What yard? When who-

PAUL	Jesus.
STAMP PAID	It ain't what you think.
PAUL	You don't know what I think.
STAMP PAID	She ain't crazy. She love those children. She was trying to outhurt the hurter's all.
PAUL	Leave off..
STAMP PAID	She was only-
PAUL	Stamp, leave off I said! I knew her when she was a girl. She scares me and I knew her when she was a girl...
STAMP PAID	You ain't scared of Sethe. I don't believe you.
PAUL	She scares me. I scare me. And that girl in her house scares me.
STAMP PAID	Who is she? Where she come from?
PAUL	Don't know. Just shot up one day from a stump.
STAMP PAID	She what run you off? Not what I told you 'bout Sethe?

PAUL	Tell me something, Stamp. Tell me this one thing. How much is a nigger supposed to take?
STAMP PAID	All he can. All he can.
PAUL	Why? Why? Why? Why? Why?

PAUL	Sethe?
SETHE	Paul D.

SETHE	You shaved.
PAUL	Yeah. Look bad?
SETHE	No, You looking good.
PAUL	Devil's confusion. What's this I hear about you not getting out of bed?  I saw Denver. She tell you?
SETHE	She comes in the daytime.  She still with me, my Denver.
PAUL	You got to get up from here, girl.
SETHE	I'm tired, Paul. So tired. I have to rest a while.
PAUL	Don't you die on me!! This is Baby Suggs quilt. Is that what you planning!?
SETHE	Oh, I don't have no plans. No plans at all.
PAUL	Look - Denver be here in the day. I be here in the night. I'm a take care of you, you hear? Starting now.

PAUL	What, baby?
SETHE	She left me. She's gone again.
PAUL	Aw, girl. Don't cry...Me and you, we got more yesterday than anybody. We need some kind of tomorrow...
SETHE	She was my best thing.

SAWYER	What the hell you thinking, girl? Strolling in here this late?
SETHE	Don't talk to me, Mr. Sawyer. Don't say nothing to me this morning.
SAWYER	What? What? You talking back to me?
SETHE	I'm telling you don't say nothing to me.

SAWYER	Not too sweet! You make it too sweet they don't eat it.
SETHE	Make it the way I always do.
SAWYER	Yeah. Too sweet. 

WHITE MAN	Hey!!
STAMP PAID	Yes sir.
WHITE MAN	I'm looking for a gal name of Judy. Works over by the slaughterhouse. Said she lived on Plank Road.
STAMP PAID	Plank Road. Yes sir. That's up a ways. Mile, maybe.
WHITE MAN	You don't know her? Judy? Works in the slaughterhouse.
STAMP PAID	No sir, I don't, but I know Plank Road. 'Bout a mile up thataway.

WHITE MAN	Look here..There's a cross up there, so I guess this here's a church or used to be. Seems to me like you ought to show it some respect, you follow me?
STAMP PAID	Yes sir..You right about that. That's just what I come over to talk to him about. Just that..

BUCKY	You come all the way down here to roust--
LEE	I came all the way down here same as you did.  Keep from gettin' killed. Happened to see those jarheads beatin' on a good collar--  Habla Ingles, Tomas?

LEE	Tom here's my ninth hard felon of the month. Six weeks he'll be sucking gas. In three years I'll be working Central Warrants. Jewboy Deputy D.A. over there wets his pants for fighters. Promised me the next spot he can wangle.
BUCKY	Impressive.
LEE	Wanna hear something more impressive? My first twenty fights were stumblebums handpicked by my manager. My girlfriend saw you fight a couple times over at the Olympic. Says maybe you <i>could</i> take me.

BUCKY	Whatta we do about the Mex?
LEE	We'll take 'em in the morning.
BUCKY	<i>You'll</i> take him.
LEE	He's half yours, partner.
BUCKY	He's all yours. And I'm not your partner.
LEE	Someday.

BIGGS	How you doin' Mister D?
DULANEY	Fine, Charlie.  You familiar with the Marsh case?

BIGGS	Yeah -- I hear they had 'em a real dog and pony show going on up there - -  I'll tell you, sometimes white people are a real puzzle to me.  I mean, did this old guy really think he was gonna be able to keep up with a sweet little number like that?
DULANEY	It could've happened to anyone.
BIGGS	I'm sorry, man -- but I ain't ever heard of no brother dying from gettin' too much pussy.

DULANEY	We have to find out who else would profit from Marsh's death -- and who knew enough about his personal life to know that putting cocaine in the nasal spray would be fatal.
BIGGS	So -- where do we start?
DULANEY	I want you to hit all the dealers in town.  Give them a list of people close to Marsh and see if any of them use.  Then I want you to check out a Doctor Alan Paley.  He lives up in Roseburg.

BIGGS	Before you ask there's nothing new on the coke.
DULANEY	You've got to get me something I can use, Charlie.
BIGGS	I'm trying.

BIGGS	I've been waiting for you to get back.
DULANEY	You got something on the coke?
BIGGS	No -- but I got something.

BIGGS	I would have missed it -- but the phone rang and I let it play while I talked.  It looks like blank tape -- but it isn't.  It's been erased without any input signal coming in.
DULANEY	So, what good is it to us if it's been erased?
BIGGS	It's very good -- because when the D.A's office saw it they assumed it was the end of the tape, otherwise they would have buried it.
DULANEY	Why?
BIGGS	Because it hasn't all been erased.

BIGGS	I'm sorry to barge in -- but I figured after that bombshell that got laid on you today you could use some good news?
DULANEY	You got something on the Coke?

DULANEY	Charlie -- are you going to make a point soon?
BIGGS	Right now.  Guess who's been buying Coke from him for the last five and half years?

BIGGS	Joanne Braslow is getting more and more interesting.  I followed her today to an attorney's office. Joseph Koehler.
DULANEY	Joe Koehler.  I know him.  He's an estate attorney -- and he's very expensive.
BIGGS	What would Joanne Braslow need with an estate attorney?  She wasn't even mentioned in Marsh's will.

DULANEY	Here it is!  According to the old will Joanne Braslow was to inherit two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
BIGGS	What good does that do -- it's the old will?
DULANEY	Under the law a person cannot profit from their own wrong doing.  Since Rebecca Lawson is the sole beneficiary of the new will, if she is found guilty the will is void and Joanne Braslow could make a very good case to have the old will reinstated.
BIGGS	She kills the old man and makes it look like Miss Lawson did it.  Pretty slick.

DULANEY	Take some time off.
BIGGS	You think the D.A.'s gonna file on Joanne?
DULANEY	I don't know.

DULANEY	You did a good job, Charlie.
BIGGS	Thanks, Mister D.

SATTLER	I don't think that this is the time, or the place.
CARDENAS	I just wanted to introduce myself and inform Miss Lawson that there will be an inquiry.
SATTLER	An inquiry into what?
CARDENAS	For starters I'd like to know why she left the house and didn't report the death?
SATTLER	Because he wasn't dead when she left, and even if he was, not reporting a natural death in a timely fashion isn't a crime.
CARDENAS	Did I say it was a natural death?

TROXELL	Marsh's Cardiologist told me that after Marsh was diagnosed with heart disease he quit smoking, quit drinking and started exercising every day.  Does that sound like a guy who'd start shoveling cocaine up his nose?
CARDENAS	What did he say about Miss Lawson?
TROXELL	He can remember at least one occasion -- and the receptionist can recall two times when she accompanied Marsh to the office.

CARDENAS	So she knew about his heart?
TROXELL	Had to.  I also interviewed three women who were in past relationships with Marsh.  There's no evidence that he had anything but straight sex prior to meeting Miss Lawson.
CARDENAS	What about the will?
TROXELL	That's the best part.  She gets it all -- everything.

TROXELL	I think I'm going to make your day.
CARDENAS	How?

TROXELL	Yeah.
CARDENAS	Then you can go.

MCCURDY	About three hours.
CARDENAS	Cause?
MCCURDY	Not sure.  I'll have everything you need tomorrow.

MCCURDY	Marsh wasn't alone.  We found traces of sperm on the sheets.  The toxicology report says there were high levels of cocaine in his blood.
CARDENAS	What'd he die of?
MCCURDY	The official cause of death was a cardiac arrest.
CARDENAS	The official cause?
MCCURDY	That's what my report will read.
CARDENAS	But there's more?

CARDENAS	What are you saying, Henry?  That his girlfriend fucked him to death?
MCCURDY	Yes.

CARDENAS	What can we prove?
MCCURDY	We know Marsh had a head cold.   We found cocaine mixed with water in a nasal spray container on the nightstand.  The coke would contract the nasal membrane the same as any decongestant, but for a much shorter time.  He'd keep using more and more -- never knowing what he was taking.
CARDENAS	Any prints on the nasal spray?

MCCURDY	Cocaine is the last thing a man in his condition would want.
CARDENAS	Can we put Rebecca Lawson at the scene?

CARDENAS	Doctor McCurdy, what was the cause of death?
MCCURDY	A massive cardiac arrest.
CARDENAS	What was Mr. Marsh's physical condition prior to his death?
MCCURDY	Very poor.  He was suffering from severe arterial disease.
CARDENAS	Was the heart attack the result of natural causes?
MCCURDY	No.
CARDENAS	What induced it?
MCCURDY	We found a high concentration of cocaine in his blood.
CARDENAS	So, Mr. Marsh used cocaine?
MCCURDY	I don't think so.  The membrane in his nasal passage didn't show any sign of long time usage.
CARDENAS	Then how did it get into his body?
MCCURDY	We found a bottle of Dristan nasal spray on the nightstand.  It was filled with water and cocaine.  Mr. Marsh had a head cold at the time of his death.  I believe he wasn't aware that he was ingesting cocaine.

CARDENAS	Is this the bottle that was found on the nightstand?
MCCURDY	Yes.
CARDENAS	Your Honor, the State enters this evidence as exhibit A.  Were any fingerprints found on the bottle?
MCCURDY	Yes -- those of Mr. Marsh and a thumb print of Miss Lawson's.
CARDENAS	Dr. McCurdy, what would cocaine do to someone in Mr. Marsh's condition?
MCCURDY	Increase his heart rate.
CARDENAS	-- And if he were in the midst of making love while under the influence of cocaine?
MCCURDY	It would be an added stress to his heart.
CARDENAS	What would be the effect if someone secretly administered cocaine to Mr. Marsh and then induced him to make love?
MCCURDY	It would be the same as shooting a gun at him.
CARDENAS	Thank you, Doctor McCurdy.  Your witness.

CARDENAS	Mrs. Crawford, you were Mr. Marsh's maid for nine years?
ESTER	Yes.
CARDENAS	Did Miss Lawson and Mr. Marsh ever argue?
ESTER	Like cats and dogs.
CARDENAS	What did they argue about?
ESTER	You name it -- they argued about it. Mr. Marsh tried his best to keep her happy -- but it seemed that no matter what he did it was never enough for her.
CARDENAS	Did they argue the day before he died?
ESTER	Well -- he died on a Sunday and I have the weekends off -- but they were ripping at each other with both barrels Friday afternoon.
CARDENAS	What was the nature of the argument?
ESTER	Sex.
CARDENAS	Could you be more specific?

CARDENAS	Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use cocaine?
ESTER	No -- never.
CARDENAS	Your witness.

CARDENAS	Your Honor, Mr. Roston is an ex-lover of Miss Lawson's.
JUDGE BURNHAM	Why didn't the State's investigation uncover Mr. Roston earlier?
CARDENAS	He was away on an extended vacation and just returned two days ago.
JUDGE BURNHAM	Alright -- I'm going to allow his testimony.

JUDGE BURNHAM	Objection sustained.
CARDENAS	Did Miss Lawson ever give you any indication why she was leaving?

CARDENAS	No questions.
JUDGE BURNHAM	You may call your next witness.

CARDENAS	Objection, Your Honor.
JUDGE BURNHAM	Counsel approach the bench.

DULANEY	That's it.  My client doesn't have to take this crap from you.
CARDENAS	Sit down, Frank.
DULANEY	No.  Miss Lawson came in here voluntarily to answer your questions. She doesn't have to sit here and be insulted.  So, either you charge her now or we're leaving.

DULANEY	Lookin' to make the papers, John?
CARDENAS	Marsh left her close to three million dollars in his will.  That's motive. She admits to being there the night of his death.  That's opportunity -- and her fingerprints are on the nasal spray bottle.
DULANEY	You can't show intent.

DULANEY	Can you?
CARDENAS	Take your pole out of the water, Frank.  The fish ain't biting today.
DULANEY	You're bluffing.  John, it's me, remember?  I've known you since your name was Juan Carlos.

DULANEY	C'mon -- think about it.  If she was going to kill Marsh why leave the nasal spray bottle there for the police to find?
CARDENAS	She planned this.  She wanted us to find the nasal spray.
DULANEY	Why would she want that?
CARDENAS	Because she's clever.  Because she knows that even if we didn't find it we'd have suspicions as to why a man in Marsh's condition would use cocaine.
DULANEY	Suspicions maybe -- but suspicions aren't enough for a conviction.
CARDENAS	The M.E.'s report stated that Marsh's nasal membranes showed no sign of prior cocaine use.  Without the nasal spray we would have still treated it as a poisoning.  We would have looked for motive and the trail would have still led back to her.
DULANEY	I don't buy it and neither will a jury.
CARDENAS	We're going all the way on this one, Frank.  Tell your client she has until the prelim to cop a plea for murder two -- fifteen to twenty five.
DULANEY	I'll tell her but she won't take it.
CARDENAS	Then she's not as smart as I thought she was.  You've seen her in the depositions.  Tell me you don't have any doubts?

DULANEY	She's innocent.
CARDENAS	Aren't they all?
DULANEY	Yeah.  Well -- we'll let the blindfolded lady with the scales decide that.

DULANEY	Your Honor, this is a tape from Miss Lawson's answering machine.  I would like to play it now.
CARDENAS	Objection.  Your Honor, we don't know where this tape is from.  Who made it -- or under what circumstances it was made.

CARDENAS	Your Honor, I fail to see what Mrs Crawford's educational background has to do with this case.
DULANEY	I was just about to make my point, Your Honor.

CARDENAS	Objection, Your Honor.  The fact that Mrs. Crawford heard Mr. Troxell reconstruct her sentence and decided to rephrase her words in a more intelligent manner for the court doesn't mean the incident never happened.
DULANEY	I'm just curious to see if Mr. Troxell reconstructed anything else.
CARDENAS	Your Honor -- please!

DULANEY	I've got work to do.
CARDENAS	Hey -- the bell's sounded.  It's between rounds.
DULANEY	I didn't hear it.

CARDENAS	What's happening to you, Frank? You're acting like you're on trial here.  This has become personal to you.
DULANEY	Back off, John.

DULANEY	That's ridiculous.
CARDENAS	I'm talking to you as a friend now. Don't ruin your life, your career for her.  She'll spit you out when this is over.
DULANEY	You don't know what you're talking about.
CARDENAS	Really?  What does an attorney speak to his client about at her house until three o'clock in the morning?
DULANEY	You've been following me?
CARDENAS	Her.  It's an obvious move.  I'm building a case against her, remember?

DULANEY	Your Honor, I don't see a Mr. Roston listed as a prosecution witness.
CARDENAS	The State's investigation just uncovered Mr. Roston yesterday afternoon in Chicago.

DULANEY	Objection.  The question calls for a conclusion on the part of the witness.
CARDENAS	Your Honor, Mr. Roston lived with the defendant for many months.  I feel that his opinion is valid in substantiating the character of the Miss Lawson.
DULANEY	The opinion of a scorned lover is hardly an objective view.

CARDENAS	Objection!
DULANEY	I'll rephrase the question.  Mr. Roston isn't it true you are bisexual?
CARDENAS	Objection!  Mr. Roston's sexual preferences are not at issue in this trial.
DULANEY	Your Honor, I'm trying to establish the sense of betrayal Miss Lawson felt when she discovered the man she lived with was a different person than she thought he was.

CARDENAS	Objection!  May I remind Mr. Dulaney that the person on trial here is Miss Lawson -- not Dr. Paley.
DULANEY	Your Honor, I'm trying to establish a pattern in Dr. Paley's behavior with women.

DULANEY	Can I go?
CARDENAS	You get his statement?

CARDENAS	Miss Lawson, do you use cocaine?
REBECCA	I have.
CARDENAS	Did you use it the night Marsh died?
REBECCA	No.  I haven't done it in years.

CARDENAS	Were you aware of Mr. Marsh's heart condition?
REBECCA	No.
CARDENAS	Mr. Marsh's Cardiologist and his nurse have told us that you accompanied Mr. Marsh to their office on at least two occasions.
REBECCA	That's correct -- but Andrew never told me he had a heart condition.  He said he had a heart arrhythmia and it was nothing serious.

CARDENAS	Miss Braslow -- I'm District Attorney John Cardenas.  You arrived at what time tonight?
JOANNE	A little after eleven.
CARDENAS	Why did you come by?
JOANNE	I had some papers to pick up.
CARDENAS	Do you know who Mr. Marsh was with?
JOANNE	I assume his girlfriend.

CARDENAS	Her name?
JOANNE	Rebecca Lawson.
CARDENAS	You wouldn't know her address, would you?
JOANNE	No -- but I can get it for you.
CARDENAS	Thank you.

CARDENAS	How long were you Mr Marsh's personal secretary?
JOANNE	Six years.
CARDENAS	Did you ever see Mr. Marsh use Cocaine?
JOANNE	No -- never.
CARDENAS	What about Miss Lawson?
JOANNE	Yes.
CARDENAS	Tell the court about that, please.
JOANNE	I opened the bathroom door one day and saw Miss Lawson pouring Cocaine out of a vial.
CARDENAS	Did you see Mr. Marsh the day before his death?
JOANNE	Yes.
CARDENAS	How did he look?
JOANNE	Horrible.  He was tired and pale.
CARDENAS	Did you talk about Miss Lawson?
JOANNE	Yes.
CARDENAS	What did Mr. Marsh say?

CARDENAS	Is it Marsh?
REESE	Yeah.

CARDENAS	Who found him?
REESE	His Secretary.  Joanne Braslow.
CARDENAS	She was here?
REESE	No.  She stopped by to pick up some papers.
CARDENAS	Show me.

CARDENAS	Doctor Trammel, when did you first diagnose that Mr. Marsh had heart disease?
DR. TRAMMEL	About a year and half ago.
CARDENAS	Did Mr. Marsh change his lifestyle after that?
DR. TRAMMEL	Yes -- he stopped smoking and drinking and exercised regularly.
CARDENAS	He did everything he could to take care of his heart?
DR. TRAMMEL	Yes.

CARDENAS	Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh to your office?
DR. TRAMMEL	Yes.
CARDENAS	Just one last question.  What does the sign on your office door say?
DR. TRAMMEL	Doctor Steven Trammel.  Cardiologist.

CARDENAS	Mr. Roston, what was your relationship with Miss Lawson?
ROSTON	We were lovers.
CARDENAS	How long were you together?
ROSTON	For about one year.
CARDENAS	How would you describe your sex life with Miss Lawson?
ROSTON	Intense.
CARDENAS	I know this is a very personal subject, but could you be a little more specific?
ROSTON	It was wild.  She was constantly trying to get me more and more worked up -- kinky things.  I tried to satisfy her the best I could, but it was difficult in my condition.
CARDENAS	What kind of condition are you referring to?
ROSTON	I had a bad heart.

CARDENAS	What happened next?
ROSTON	I had bypass surgery.
CARDENAS	And how are you now?
ROSTON	Fine.  The doctors say if I keep taking care of myself I can live to be a very old man.
CARDENAS	How did your relationship with Miss Lawson progress after the surgery?
ROSTON	It didn't.
CARDENAS	Why not?
ROSTON	She left me.

CARDENAS	Why did she say she was leaving?
ROSTON	She didn't.  She just left.
CARDENAS	Why do you think she left you?
ROSTON	Well -- I think that after the operation she realized that...

CARDENAS	When you say your sexual relations with Miss Lawson were intense what exactly do you mean?
ROSTON	It was like she was trying to push me as far as she could.  She called it opening new doors.
CARDENAS	Can you give the court an example?
ROSTON	It was like sex was a game to her. She got off on the control.  She always used to tell me it had to be her way.

ROSTON	It's hard to resist a woman as beautiful as she is.
CARDENAS	What would she do that made it hard to resist?
ROSTON	She's a woman who is very much aware of her own sexuality.  Sometimes I felt she could read my mind.  It was uncanny how she knew exactly what I wanted.  A few nights before my heart surgery Rebecca woke me.  She had handcuffed me to the bed.

ROSTON	She told me that tonight we were going to open new doors.  I asked her to stop -- to take off the handcuffs, but she wouldn't listen.
CARDENAS	What did she say?

CARDENAS	Mr. Roston I know this is difficult for you, but it's important you tell the court what she did.
ROSTON	She said she was going to fuck me like I've never been fucked before.

CARDENAS	What did she do next, Mr. Roston?
ROSTON	She started touching herself and telling me how much she wanted me. She reached down and put me inside her.  My doctor had warned me about exerting myself -- but you really don't think of those things at a moment like that.  You just think about how beautiful this woman is -- how much you want her.  How deeply you want to please her.  At first it started off slowly -- but the rhythm built and built.    Every time I got close to an orgasm she would stop.  Eventually I started to have trouble breathing.  Rebecca just kept going -- faster and faster.  No matter what I said she wouldn't stop. I really thought for a moment I was going to die.
CARDENAS	If you knew it was bad for you why did you do it?
ROSTON	I couldn't help myself.  You get lost inside a women like her.  It was like a drug.  It was the best sex I ever had.
CARDENAS	What happened after that?
ROSTON	I woke up the next morning and she was gone.
CARDENAS	Did you change your will while you were with Miss Lawson?

ROSTON	Yes.
CARDENAS	Who was your primary beneficiary?
ROSTON	She was.
CARDENAS	Thank you.  The State rests.

CARDENAS	Where did you meet Miss Lawson?
DR. PALEY	At a dinner party -- about eight months ago.
CARDENAS	Did you ever see her again after that?
DR. PALEY	Yes -- several times.
CARDENAS	What eventually happened to your relationship with Miss Lawson?
DR. PALEY	We stopped seeing each other.
CARDENAS	Why?
DR. PALEY	Well -- I realized that she wasn't interested in me.  She was just trying to get information out of me.

CARDENAS	What kind of information?
DR. PALEY	She said that she was working on a novel and she wanted to know what kinds of drugs would be harmful to someone with a bad heart.

CARDENAS	Did you suggest any?
DR. PALEY	Yes -- Insulin and others.
CARDENAS	What did she say?
DR. PALEY	She said that those weren't any good -- because their use would be detected and the police would know the victim had been poisoned.  She wanted to know if there was a drug that would induce a heart attack but could also be used to enhance a sexual high.
CARDENAS	-- And what did you suggest?
DR. PALEY	Cocaine.

DULANEY	Dr. Paley, where were you the last time you saw Miss Lawson?
DR. PALEY	We had dinner at a restaurant.

DULANEY	Isn't it true that later that night you tried to force yourself on Miss Lawson in the parking lot?
DR. PALEY	No.
DULANEY	You didn't grab her and try to kiss her?
DR. PALEY	No.
DULANEY	If necessary I can bring in the valet parking attendant and two customers who witnessed the occurrence.

DR. PALEY	Well -- as I remember it, we had an argument.
DULANEY	And the argument was about the fact that you wanted to be romantically involved and she did not.
DR. PALEY	Yes.
DULANEY	And after that didn't you continuously harass Miss Lawson?
DR. PALEY	No.

DULANEY	You'll be sorry?
DR. PALEY	I was angry.
DULANEY	You're still angry, aren't you? Isn't it true that your whole story is nothing more than a vindictive attempt on your behalf to get back at Miss Lawson?
DR. PALEY	No -- she asked me about cocaine.
DULANEY	I suggest it never happened.

DR. PALEY	You can suggest anything you want. It happened.
DULANEY	No further questions.

DR. PALEY	I may have been infatuated with her - - but I wouldn't perjure myself.
DULANEY	That's all Dr. Paley.

DULANEY	Don't you see what she's doing?  She needs you to kill me.  She's planned it that way from the start.  That's why she phoned me tonight.
DR. PALEY	You called him?

DULANEY	I'm sure that every orgasm she had with me was faked.
DR. PALEY	That's enough.
DULANEY	I mean she only screwed me two or three times a night because she had to -- I'm sure she didn't enjoy it.

DULANEY	Dr. Trammel, did you ever speak to Miss Lawson about Mr. Marsh's condition?
DR. TRAMMEL	No.
DULANEY	Did Mr. Marsh ever tell you that he had spoken to Miss Lawson about his illness?
DR. TRAMMEL	No.
DULANEY	Did Miss Lawson ever accompany Mr. Marsh inside during his examinations?
DR. TRAMMEL	No.
DULANEY	Then you have no way of knowing what Mr. Marsh told Miss Lawson were the reasons for his visits?
DR. TRAMMEL	No.  No, I don't.

DULANEY	Dr. Wong -- what type of medicine do you practice?
DR. WONG	Oriental medicine.
DULANEY	--And is Miss Lawson a patient of yours?
DR. WONG	Yes.  I've been seeing her for over a year.
DULANEY	Why does she come to you?
DR. WONG	She suffers from severe menstrual cramps.

DULANEY	Did you ever prescribe any medication for her cramps?
DR. WONG	Yes.
DULANEY	What did you prescribe for her?
DR. WONG	Chinese peony root.
DULANEY	Would you describe for the court what Chinese peony root looks like?
DR. WONG	It's a white powder that comes in a vial.

DULANEY	How do you instruct your patients to take it?
DR. WONG	I tell them to pour an amount the size of a quarter into the their hand and mix it with water.
DULANEY	A previous witness stated that she saw Miss Lawson pouring a white powder into her hand on October twenty-eighth.  According to your records when did you prescribe the drug?

DR. WONG	October twenty-seventh.
DULANEY	One last question, Doctor.  If someone didn't know better, would it be easy to mistake the peony root for cocaine?
DR. WONG	Yes -- quite easy.

DULANEY	Did you go to college, Mrs. Crawford?
ESTER	No.
DULANEY	High school?
ESTER	No.

ESTER	I heard him say it.
DULANEY	Then -- those are not your own words?
ESTER	No.
DULANEY	What else did the District Attorney's Office tell you to say?

DULANEY	Miss Sellers, do you know Dr. Alan Paley?
MISS SELLERS	Yes.
DULANEY	Where did you meet him?
MISS SELLERS	I'm a nurse.  I used to work at Roseburg Memorial Hospital.  Dr. Paley's on staff there.
DULANEY	What was the nature of your relationship with Dr. Paley.
MISS SELLERS	We dated for about a month last year.
DULANEY	Then what happened?
MISS SELLERS	I realized he wasn't serious.  He was seeing other women -- asking other nurses at the hospital out, so I ended it.

DULANEY	-- And what did Dr. Paley do after you stopped seeing him?
MISS SELLERS	He used to call me -- tell me that I couldn't just walk out on him.  He said that if I didn't come back he'd make my life miserable.
DULANEY	Did he make your life miserable?
MISS SELLERS	Yes -- he did.
DULANEY	How?

DULANEY	What did he say?
MISS SELLERS	He laughed -- and basically said he would decide when it was over.
DULANEY	Do you remember his exact words?

DULANEY	What happened next?
MISS SELLERS	While I was seeing Dr. Paley I mentioned to him one night that someone was stealing drugs from the third floor dispensary.   Three days after I spoke to him in his office he went to the Head Nurse and told her he had witnessed me stealing drugs.
DULANEY	What happened?
MISS SELLERS	There was an inquiry.  It was his word against mine.  They believed him.  I was fired.

JOANNE	I worked for Mr. Marsh for six years. He was a good man -- until she came along.
DULANEY	What changed?
JOANNE	He did.  Look, I know you can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink -- but you hold a pail of water in front of an old horse for long enough  -- and well...

DULANEY	You don't really believe what the district attorney is saying about Miss Lawson, do you?
JOANNE	I don't know.  It's incredible to think that anyone could be capable of doing that -- but if anyone could it would be Rebecca.
DULANEY	I take it you don't like Miss Lawson very much?
JOANNE	I really don't know her that well. We would say hello to each other when I would come to the house, but that was about it.
DULANEY	If you don't know her that well what makes you think she's capable of murder?
JOANNE	Andrew was a kind and gentle man, but he was thirty years older than her. Where's the attraction to sleep with someone like that -- to have the kind of sex they had.

DULANEY	How do you know what kind of sex they had?
JOANNE	I wasn't lookin' through the keyhole if that's what you're thinking.  I'd come to house sometimes to pick up papers or speak to Andrew.  I'd find their little toys all over the place.
DULANEY	Did Mr. Marsh use drugs?
JOANNE	No.
DULANEY	What about Miss Lawson?
JOANNE	Yes -- cocaine.

DULANEY	How do you know that?
JOANNE	I was at the house one morning -- I thought Miss Lawson was upstairs with Mr. Marsh.  When I went into the guest bathroom she was standing in front of the mirror pouring this white powder out of a vial.

DULANEY	How do you know it was cocaine that Miss Lawson had in the bathroom?
JOANNE	What other kind of white powder do people keep in a vial?
DULANEY	Do you remember the date when you saw Miss Lawson in the bathroom?
JOANNE	Yes--  It was on a Friday.  I remember because I was going to visit my sister for her birthday.  It would be October twenty-eighth.
DULANEY	Could you repeat the last part of what Mr. Marsh said to you the day before his death?
JOANNE	He said that if it kept up she was going to kill him.  That his heart couldn't take it.
DULANEY	Didn't Mr. Marsh also tell you that Miss Lawson felt bored here and was thinking about going back to Chicago for awhile?

JOANNE	Yes -- he mentioned it.
DULANEY	So, the woman he loved passionately was thinking about leaving.  That must cause tremendous anxiety. Sleepless nights.  Incredible stress.
JOANNE	I suppose.
DULANEY	So, isn't it possible that he was confiding in you about the pain he was feeling about losing what might be his last chance for love?  That what he really was saying was that the uncertainty of her leaving was driving him crazy and if it didn't stop it was going to kill him.  That if she did leave his heart couldn't take it.

JOANNE	I don't know.  I'm not sure.
DULANEY	Well, think about it.  Isn't it possible?
JOANNE	Yes.  I suppose it's possible.

JOANNE	Who told you that?
DULANEY	He video taped you.
JOANNE	That bastard!
DULANEY	I thought he was a kind, gentle man?

JOANNE	Yes, I slept with him but that was a long time ago.
DULANEY	You're lying.  Marsh was wearing a cast on the tape.  It was right before he went to Chicago and met Miss Lawson.  He dumped you for her, didn't he?

JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	It must have been horrible.  Having to go there -- seeing them together - - knowing he was sleeping with her in the same bed he did with you.
JOANNE	I was jealous.  Of course I was hurt. He switched me off like a little toy he was finished playing with.  But I didn't kill him.

JOANNE	I'm a practical woman Mr. Dulaney. Killing Andrew wasn't in my best interest.  As it is I'm out of a job and I'm not in his will.
DULANEY	Money isn't the only reason people commit murder, Miss Braslow.

JOANNE	I've tried it.
DULANEY	You've tried it?  Isn't it true that you've been in and out of Rehab centers for the last four years?

JOANNE	I've been to a few -- yes.
DULANEY	You don't like Miss Lawson much do you?
JOANNE	No.
DULANEY	You don't like her because you were involved with Mr. Marsh before she came along.  Isn't that true?
JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	You resented the fact that she told you what to do in Mr. Marsh's house?
JOANNE	Yes.

DULANEY	And you resented that he cared for her in a way he once cared for you?
JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	--And that Mr. Marsh paid less attention to you?
JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	--and that he changed his will?
JOANNE	Yes.

DULANEY	In his previous will Mr. Marsh left you two hundred and fifty thousand dollars -- then he cut you out.  Why do you think he did that?
JOANNE	She talked him into it.  She wanted everything.
DULANEY	Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money.  That must have made you pretty angry?
JOANNE	Yes.

JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	Well - I'm a little confused.  This is a charge receipt from Rosen's Drug Store where Mr. Marsh had an account.  It's dated the day of the murder.  Is this your signature?
JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	There's an item you picked up that's marked.  Will you read it?
JOANNE	Dristan nasal spray.
DULANEY	Would you read for us the time of the purchase?
JOANNE	Three fifteen.
DULANEY	A.M -- or P.M.?
JOANNE	P.M.
DULANEY	You see that's what bothers me.  No other bottle of nasal spray was found in the house.  The police looked. There was only the one bottle.  But you say you didn't arrive until after Mr. Marsh was dead -- yet we know he was using the nasal spray prior to his death.  How do you think it got there?
JOANNE	I don't know.

DULANEY	Isn't it true that you stopped by the house after you left the drug store and dropped off the items you bought?
JOANNE	No.
DULANEY	Isn't it true that you put the cocaine in the bottle?
JOANNE	No!  Why would I want to kill him?
DULANEY	Because you were jealous.  Because he cut you out of the will.  Because you have a cocaine habit to feed -- because you know that if Rebecca Lawson is found guilty the new will is void -- and there's a very good chance the old one would be honored.

JOANNE	You take what people say and make it ugly.  You make others believe what you want them to.  She should have been found guilty.  She shouldn't have gotten off.
DULANEY	Then you would have gotten your money?
JOANNE	Yes.
DULANEY	You killed him -- didn't you, Joanne?

DULANEY	What do you have in your purse?
JOANNE	What do you think I've got?  A gun? Maybe I'm gonna kill you too.  Maybe I'll blow your head off right now.

JOANNE	I'm gonna go to jail.  I know they're gonna make it look like I did it. They gotta put it on someone.
DULANEY	Why'd you come here?
JOANNE	To show you this.  It's a letter from that lawyer, Koehler.  He wrote it to me the day after I saw him.  He's the one who told me I could get the money if Miss Lawson went to jail.
DULANEY	You didn't know about it before that?
JOANNE	No.

DULANEY	Then why did you go see Mr. Koehler in the first place?
JOANNE	Because he called me.

DULANEY	Hi, Joe.
KOEHLER	Frank -- what are you doing here?
DULANEY	I need to ask you a question.  What made you get in touch with Joanne Braslow?
KOEHLER	You know I can't talk about that.
DULANEY	I'm not asking for names or specifics.  I just want to know what prompted you to make the call?
KOEHLER	Sorry.

ROSTON	Yes.
DULANEY	And your sexual tastes were something that you hid from Miss Lawson?
ROSTON	Yes.
DULANEY	And didn't Miss Lawson come home one day and find you in bed with your male lover?
ROSTON	Yes.
DULANEY	And she left shortly after that?

DULANEY	Would it be fair to say that when she did find out it was a shock to her?
ROSTON	Yes.
DULANEY	No further questions.

REBECCA	Are you going to represent me?
DULANEY	There are no charges against you. I'm here to decide if I'm going to represent you should that occur.  Did you kill him?

REBECCA	Do you think I did it?
DULANEY	I don't know.  That's why I'm asking you.
REBECCA	You must have some feeling.  Some immediate impression.  A young, attractive woman, involved with an older man who leaves her everything in his will.  And the things that went on in that house.  Such wild sex.  What kind of picture does that paint?
DULANEY	Not a very good one I'm afraid.

REBECCA	And that's exactly what the jury will see when they look at me.  That's why I need a very good lawyer, Mr. Dulaney.
DULANEY	You're assuming the District Attorney is going to file charges.

REBECCA	He'll file.  He's an ambitious man. Ambitious men build their careers on the bodies of others.
DULANEY	You still haven't answered my question.

REBECCA	Frank!
DULANEY	I'll have you out in a few hours.

DULANEY	I want you to know right now that the trial's going to be nasty.  Your sex life is going to be dragged through the mud.  They're going to say that you enticed Marsh -- led him down a dark path.
REBECCA	Andrew hardly needed leading.  He was a very passionate man.  He was eager to explore.  I gave him what he wanted.  We fulfilled each others needs.
DULANEY	This is a very small town -- people here have very straight views on sex.

REBECCA	I'm used to being on the outside looking in.  The same men who will publicly profess their moral outrage for my sexual tastes are the same ones who privately rest their sweaty little hands on my legs and talk about weekend trips together.
DULANEY	Those same men will be sitting on the jury.
REBECCA	I am who I am.  I can't deny it, anymore than you can deny who you are.  I like sex different -- I like it wild.  That's not a crime.  I loved Andrew.  We made love together.  We made it differently, but we still made love.  It was our way.  It was private -- and now the whole world wants to look in through the pretense of justice.  If I was some middle-aged divorcee who screwed him once a week do you think this would be happening to me?

REBECCA	Have you ever seen animals make love, Mr. Dulaney?  They have such passion -- such savage emotion.  They struggle, and snarl, and claw, but neither hurts the other.  Not really.
DULANEY	No pain, no gain?
REBECCA	Something like that.
DULANEY	We're not animals.

DULANEY	I think we're getting a little off the subject here.
REBECCA	I thought the subject was sex?
DULANEY	As it pertains to you -- not me.  Did you always know you had different... tastes?
REBECCA	Yes.
DULANEY	How?
REBECCA	I don't know if it's something I can explain to you.
DULANEY	Why not?
REBECCA	Because -- it's beyond intellect. It's emotion.  It's passion.  It has to be experienced -- it can't be imagined.
DULANEY	Try.

REBECCA	When I was growing up we had a strawberry patch in our backyard. So did this family down the road.  I used to sneak in their yard and steal their strawberries.  It wasn't easy. The stone walls were high and I'd scrape my knees as I climbed over. On the other side were wild rose bushes.  The thorns would dig into my legs and cut my thighs as I lowered myself down.
DULANEY	If you had what you wanted at home why did you sneak into their yard?
REBECCA	Because -- somehow the fruit always tasted that much sweeter because of the pain it took to get to it.

DULANEY	How'd you meet Marsh?
REBECCA	I was at a cocktail party.  Very trendy.  Andrew was in Chicago on business.  He had broken his wrist the week before and was wearing it in a sling.  He looked so helpless.

DULANEY	-- And then?
REBECCA	We started talking.  In fact, we talked until four in the morning.  We discovered we shared a lot of the same interests.  After that we were together all the time until he left. He used to call me every night after he came back.  Then after a few weeks he invited me to come visit him. I've never left.
DULANEY	Why didn't you live together?

REBECCA	Can we get out of here?
DULANEY	Sure.  Where to?

DULANEY	This is your house.
REBECCA	I know.

REBECCA	Why not?
DULANEY	Because, I'm your attorney.  I shouldn't be going to your house.
REBECCA	Is it against the law?
DULANEY	No -- it just doesn't look right.

REBECCA	What do you think?
DULANEY	I think the photographer's probably a voyeur.
REBECCA	I'm the photographer.
DULANEY	Oh -- Well, they're different.
REBECCA	That's not an answer.
DULANEY	It's not my taste.
REBECCA	Tastes can change.

DULANEY	Nothing.
REBECCA	Not true.  Shall I tell you what you were thinking?  You were wondering if I was wearing anything under my skirt.

REBECCA	Hello?
DULANEY	Hi.  It's Frank.
REBECCA	Hi, Frank.
DULANEY	I just wanted to see if my secretary called to confirm your appointment tomorrow.
REBECCA	Yes -- she did.
DULANEY	Great.  I'll see you at the office at nine.
REBECCA	No -- not at the office.  I've got a better idea.

DULANEY	Yeah.
REBECCA	Andrew loved this old cabin.  He always dreamed about moving to Tahiti -- living in a hut and becoming a beach-bum.  I could never imagine myself doing that -- but somehow when he talked about it, he made it sound so alive - - so wonderful.  Soft ocean breezes and beautiful sunsets -- leaving the world and it's problems behind.  I wish he'd had a chance to do it.

REBECCA	Sorry.
DULANEY	It's okay.

DULANEY	Tell me about Doctor Paley?
REBECCA	I hardly know him.  He wanted me and he couldn't have me.
DULANEY	It's going to be hard to convince a jury that he's testifying against you in a murder trial because you blew him off.
REBECCA	It won't be that hard.

REBECCA	Did you always want to be a lawyer?
DULANEY	No -- I wanted to be a professional hockey player.
REBECCA	Really?
DULANEY	Yeah.
REBECCA	That seems so far away from who you are now.  What happened?
DULANEY	I broke my ankle skating.  That ended that dream.
REBECCA	It's hard to let go of a dream, isn't it?  To let go of what you want?

REBECCA	Yes -- it would be nice.
DULANEY	What would?
REBECCA	You and me -- making love.
DULANEY	Is that what you think I was thinking?
REBECCA	No -- that's what I know you were thinking.

REBECCA	There's nothing wrong in admitting that you want me, Frank.
DULANEY	You take a lot for granted.

DULANEY	You lied to me!
REBECCA	What?
DULANEY	I just left Joanne Braslow.  She told me she saw you doing cocaine at Marsh's house!
REBECCA	She's mistaken.
DULANEY	That's not good enough, Goddamit!
REBECCA	It isn't true.  You have to believe me.
DULANEY	No, I don't have to believe you.  The jury has to believe you and answers like he's lying or she's mistaken aren't going to convince them.
REBECCA	I don't use cocaine anymore.  If she says she saw me doing it she's lying.
DULANEY	Why would she lie?
REBECCA	I don't know, Frank -- but don't you think that's something we should find out?

DULANEY	I called you all weekend.  Where were you?
REBECCA	I went out on the boat.

DULANEY	Alone?
REBECCA	Of course.

REBECCA	You were brilliant today.
DULANEY	It's only the beginning.

DULANEY	Can I see you later?
REBECCA	You can see me now.

REBECCA	Something wrong?
DULANEY	Paley could be a problem tomorrow.

REBECCA	I'm sure you'll be able to handle him.
DULANEY	I'm glad you have such confidence in me.
REBECCA	Don't worry about Paley.  He can't touch me.  No one can.  I've thought it all out.
DULANEY	What does that mean?  You've been thinking about the case?  Or you thought everything out before you killed Marsh?

REBECCA	Sugar or honey?
DULANEY	Honey.

DULANEY	Rebecca -- take these off.
REBECCA	Tonight we open new doors.

DULANEY	What are you going you doing?
REBECCA	Are you scared?

DULANEY	What's that for?
REBECCA	To celebrate how masterfully you destroyed Roston today.
DULANEY	Rebecca -- we shattered a man's life in open court.
REBECCA	Fuck him!  He tried to shatter mine.
DULANEY	He was only doing what he thought was right.
REBECCA	You're too weak, Frank.  When you want something you have to do what- ever it takes to get it.  If something gets in your way you remove it.

DULANEY	You killed him -- didn't you?
REBECCA	I knew you were thinking that.  I could see it in your eyes today in the courtroom.  You're wrong, Frank. I need you to believe that.
DULANEY	You don't need anybody.
REBECCA	I do need you.  No matter what you think of me -- I didn't do it.

DULANEY	I'm dropping the case.
REBECCA	No -- you're not.

REBECCA	You can think whatever you want, Frank -- but I didn't kill Andrew, and I'm not going to prison for something I didn't do.
DULANEY	You're a monster.
REBECCA	No -- I'm a survivor.

DULANEY	Hello?
REBECCA	Frank -- It's Rebecca.  I need to see you right away.  I've got the tape.

DULANEY	You killed him.  You killed him -- and I got you off.
REBECCA	That's crazy.

REBECCA	I've been thinking about that.  I've decided to give it to you after I've collected the inheritance.  You can take that one if you want -- but there's another copy.
DULANEY	That wasn't the deal.
REBECCA	So, sue me.  Things have changed.  I think you should go home -- and after you leave I see no reason for us to ever have contact again.
DULANEY	I'm not leaving without that tape.
REBECCA	Don't push me, Frank.  I might lose my temper and send it out just for spite.

DULANEY	She's right, Paley.  You've got to kill me.  She doesn't have to -- she's free -- she can't be tried again -- but you, you planned it with her.  You supplied the Coke.  You're an accessory to murder.
REBECCA	Shoot him.

REBECCA	No -- he's lying.
DULANEY	How's it supposed to work Rebecca? You and Paley celebrate your victory. You get me over here and provoke a fight so he has to rush in and save you -- but then he's given himself away as your accomplice -- now he has to kill me.  After that I figure she'll tell the Police that you broke in.  That you were crazed because we humiliated you in court?
REBECCA	Don't listen to him.  Can't you see he's trying to turn you against me.

DULANEY	Andrew Marsh was a very wealthy man. A trial like this is going to put Cardenas in the spot-light.
SATTLER	We've already got press arriving from over the country and she hasn't even been charged yet. Cardenas wants to see her in his office tomorrow at ten.  I'd like you to go with her.
DULANEY	I'm supposed to be on vacation.

SATTLER	I know -- but she wants you to represent her if Cardenas files.
DULANEY	Why?
SATTLER	Because I told her you were the best criminal attorney we have.
DULANEY	Raymond, I'm the only criminal attorney you have.
SATTLER	Well, I guess that makes you the best.  Look, Frank -- she stands to inherit three million dollars.  As executors of the estate and her attorneys that could generate a lot of legal fees for us.  All I'm asking you to do is talk to her.

DULANEY	Alright, I'll talk to her
SATTLER	She's waiting in the conference room.

DULANEY	What are they saying?
MICHAEL	The kids at school say she humped Mr. Marsh to death.
DULANEY	Hey, you know better than that.  What did I teach you to say when someone is accused of doing something?
MICHAEL	She allegedly humped him to death?

DULANEY	You know how it is sometimes when you're out playing ball with your friends?  How you're really concentrating on what you're doing -- and you lose track of time and you come home late and Mom yells at you?
MICHAEL	Yeah.
DULANEY	Well, that's kind of how I am right now.
MICHAEL	Is Mom yelling at you too?

DULANEY	I love you.
MICHAEL	I love you too, Dad.

DULANEY	Michael -- get off the phone.
MICHAEL	Why?
DULANEY	Because I'm expecting a call.
MICHAEL	-- But it's Sunday.
DULANEY	I know what day it is!  Get off the phone.
MICHAEL	I gotta go.  I'll call you later.

JUDGE BURNHAM	Do it quickly, Mr. Dulaney.
DULANEY	Discourteous insinuations about his sexual abilities.  Who told you to say that?

JUDGE BURNHAM	Mr. Dulaney, before you cast aspersions on the District Attorney's Office by suggesting they've coaxed this witness to say things that aren't true -- you better have more than a hunch.  Do you?
DULANEY	No, Your Honor.
JUDGE BURNHAM	Maybe you don't know what it's like where Mrs. Crawford comes from -- but I do.  I came from a neighborhood just like hers.  This is a whole other world for her.  She's a poor working woman who has been thrust into a room full of highly educated and mostly unsympathetic people.  So, she puts on her best dress, fixes her hair and tries to present herself as intelligently as possible.  Being poor and having pride is not a crime, Mr. Dulaney -- and before you attempt to impeach another witness' testimony in my courtroom -- your foundations better be based on something other than semantics.

DULANEY	But Your Honor--
JUDGE BURNHAM	That's it, Mr. Dulaney.  Take a seat.

DULANEY	Objection.  The witness has already stated that Miss Lawson left without an explanation.
JUDGE BURNHAM	Mr. Cardenas, I suggest you move on to another line of questioning.

JUDGE BURNHAM	The witness will answer the question.
DULANEY	Mr. Roston?

JUDGE BURNHAM	Miss Braslow, I'd like to remind you that you are still under oath.
DULANEY	How often do you use cocaine?

DULANEY	Your Honor -- the prosecution has introduced cocaine as one of the contributing reasons Mr. Marsh died. How it may have been introduced into the household is of vital importance.
JUDGE BURNHAM	Are you able to back up this allegation -- or are you fishing?
DULANEY	I can back it up.
JUDGE BURNHAM	You better.  Please answer the question.

SHARON	You're on vacation, remember?  You're supposed to be relaxing.
DULANEY	I am relaxing.
SHARON	This is not relaxing.
DULANEY	Really?
SHARON	Really.
DULANEY	And I suppose you're going to show me how to relax?
SHARON	If you want me to.
DULANEY	I'm always open to learning new things.

DULANEY	Can't it wait?
SHARON	No -- it has to be done by tomorrow.

DULANEY	Hello?... Hi Raymond.... What?... Well, I was sort of planning on... Alright... Okay, goodbye.  That was Sattler.  He thinks the D.A.'s going to file on Rebecca Lawson.  He wants me in the office tomorrow morning.
SHARON	We're supposed to go to the lake.
DULANEY	I know.  What can I do?  He is the boss.
SHARON	He could let you have your vacation.

SHARON	I swear -- the both of you.  Some example you set.
DULANEY	Some example you set.

SHARON	How can Cardenas possibly think he can build a case against two consenting adults?
DULANEY	He must have something or he wouldn't be pressing so hard.
SHARON	If he files are you going to take the case?
DULANEY	I don't know yet.  I want to hear what she says at her statement tomorrow.
SHARON	What's she like?
DULANEY	Attractive.  Bright.  Distant. Charming when she wants to be.

SHARON	She sounds like quite a woman.
DULANEY	Yeah -- but can she cook?

DULANEY	Humped
SHARON	Yes.
DULANEY	I can think of worse ways to go--

SHARON	Frank -- I know you're busy, but Michael asked me after dinner if you were angry with him.  He wanted to know why you weren't talking to him.
DULANEY	I'll talk to him later.
SHARON	Why don't you talk to him now?
DULANEY	Because I go to trial in seven weeks. I've got a lot of preparing to do.
SHARON	No one's asking you not to work.  I just think you could make some time for your son.

SHARON	Is that alright, Frank?
DULANEY	Yeah -- fine.  Excuse me.  I'll be right back.

DULANEY	Yeah -- what are you doing up?
SHARON	We have to talk.
DULANEY	What's wrong?
SHARON	That's what I was hoping you'd tell me.

DULANEY	Sharon, it's late.  Can we get to the point?
SHARON	Where have you been?

DULANEY	Working.  Charlie and I were going over some statements.
SHARON	Charlie called at eleven thirty looking for you.  You were with her, weren't you?
DULANEY	Yes.
SHARON	Why did you lie to me?
DULANEY	Because I knew you'd think exactly what you're thinking.

SHARON	This isn't a courtroom.  Don't try to turn this around on me.
DULANEY	I'm not.
SHARON	You're sleeping with her, aren't you?
DULANEY	No.
SHARON	It's bad enough that you are.  It's even worse that you can stand here and lie to me.

DULANEY	I was thinking that when the trial is over we'd all go skiing for a weekend.
SHARON	Maybe it would be a good idea if you just took Michael.

DULANEY	I know.
SHARON	Talk to me.

DULANEY	You wouldn't like what you'd see. You don't know me anymore.  I don't know me anymore.
SHARON	We can't pretend this isn't happening.
DULANEY	Please -- not now.
SHARON	Why didn't you come to me?
DULANEY	I don't know.
SHARON	You used to like to touch me -- to make love to me.
DULANEY	It's more involved than that.
SHARON	It was a place to start.
DULANEY	You think that's the answer?  Sex? Is that what you want?  You want me to make love to you?
SHARON	I don't want our lives ruined because of this.  I love you, Frank.  I want this to work -- but you have to help me.  You have to come back from where ever it is you are.

SHARON	Frank -- stop it!  Stop it!
DULANEY	Is this what you want -- huh?  Is it?

MICHAEL	Albert's got the stomach flu.
SHARON	That's too bad.
MICHAEL	No, it's not.  Now I get to pitch.
SHARON	Michael, you shouldn't be happy when someone else isn't feeling well.
MICHAEL	Not even if they're a dork?
SHARON	Not even if they're a dork.  You should go by and see how he's feeling.

SHARON	Don't use language like that at the dinner table.
MICHAEL	Sorry.

SHARON	Let me go!  Godammit, Frank let go!
MICHAEL	Daddy -- stop it!

REBECCA	I didn't know that Andrew was dead until Mr. Sattler called me at home that night.
REESE	We have a witness who saw you go into the house at four thirty.

REBECCA	Yes.
REESE	What time did you leave?
REBECCA	Six thirty -- and he was very much alive.

REESE	Did Marsh use it?
REBECCA	No -- never.
REESE	It had to get there somehow.
REBECCA	It didn't get there from me.

BELLE	Belle Dee. I'm from over the mountain.
JABEZ	From over the mountain --

JABEZ	I'll take it.
BELLE	No -- that's for me to do.

JABEZ	Let's dance together -- Belle.
BELLE	No, Jabez -- your place is with your wife --

JABEZ	Golly, Belle, that was a good idea -- we should do that every morning.
BELLE	We will --

JABEZ	We'll cook 'em ourselves. You'll help me, Belle.
BELLE	Of course I will.

BELLE	The people, Jabez -- the people.
JABEZ	The -- folks or people, what's the difference among friends?

JABEZ	Hey, you! Watch out there -- you're scuffing my Brussels carpet -- Consarn them.
BELLE	Jabez! Careful --
JABEZ	Oh --  Didn't mean to talk like that in front of a lady.  Get some wine for the Squire, Belle.

JABEZ	What are those people doing there? What do they want?
BELLE	They're just outsiders. They want to see how fine Jabez Stone lives these days. They're waiting for your guests, too --

JABEZ	Who are these people?
BELLE	They are all friends of mine -- from over the mountain.  Welcome! Help yourselves to drinks! Glad you could come! Have a good time.

MARY	Jabez -- ?
BELLE	I've brought you something to keep you warm, Mrs. Stone --

BELLE	You're not resting well, are you? I know -- it's that music.  You need your sleep. Is there anything else you want?
MARY	No, thank you -- what's your name?
BELLE	Belle --
MARY	Thank you, Belle --

BELLE	That's my business. -- Now, it's all right, Daniel.  What did he do?
MARY	He lied to me again.

BELLE	I see why you're here -- you knew that nobody was coming.
MARY	I didn't.
BELLE	You're lying.
MARY	Lying to you -- Why should I?
BELLE	You know that you're in my house.
MARY	I know -- and you could show me the door. You would, too, if you weren't still hoping the guests might arrive.
BELLE	You think you're so smart, Mrs. Stone. You wanted to be near Jabez. It looked like your big chance tonight, but you're wrong, you can't win him back -- not that way.
MARY	That's my problem, Belle.

WEBSTER	Hello, Colonel! Want a lift?
DANIEL	Well, I wouldn't mind.  But my name's Daniel Stone.
WEBSTER	All right, Daniel. Jump in.

DANIEL	Gee -- that Fair --
WEBSTER	It hasn't opened yet?
DANIEL	No -- but I can hardly wait -- Mister -- tell me, will there really be --  -- a man that eats fire?
WEBSTER	Guess there will, if it says so.
DANIEL	And two unpara-- unparalleled Cir-cass-ian beauties? What is that?
WEBSTER	Young man -- you got me there.
DANIEL	'N Daniel Webster will be there.
WEBSTER	A varied list of attractions. And which would you like to see first, Dan'l?
DANIEL	I think I'd like to begin with the fire-eater --
WEBSTER	And what about Daniel Webster?
DANIEL	Well, I thought he'd come in the middle.
WEBSTER	And serve him right!

WEBSTER	Daniel! Don't ever let me catch you doing that again!
DANIEL	Why? It don't hurt.
WEBSTER	It does hurt! And don't you do it again.

DANIEL	Make them go faster, Mr.... ?
WEBSTER	No, Daniel -- they are not race horses. They are good old friends of mine. I call 'em Constitution and Bill of Rights, the most dependable pair for long journeys. I've got one called Missouri Compromise, too, and then there's a Supreme Court -- fine, dignified horse, though you do have to push him now and then.
DANIEL	Golly -- I'd like to see all your horses!
WEBSTER	Maybe you can, sometime, Daniel. I'm a farmer, you know, and like to show my farm -- but the thing I'd like to show you most, you'll have to see for yourself.
DANIEL	What's that, sir?
WEBSTER	Well -- it's high and it's wide and it goes a long way and there is a wind blowing through it and a blue roof over it -- it's the hills up here and the rivers running south and the new States growing in the West.
DANIEL	Anybody can see that.
WEBSTER	You're wrong, Mr. Stone. There are people who live and die without e'er seeing it. They can't see the country for the money in their pockets -- And some think their state's the country, or the way they live is the country, and they're willing to split the country because of that. Well, I hope you'll meet all those, when you're grown. You'll meet the fire-eaters and the Circassian beauties -- that's part of the fair, to be sure. But if we'd had to depend on them, in a permanent way, the country would have stopped at the Allegheny mountains.
DANIEL	But it didn't stop. I know it didn't stop. Granny told me it didn't.
WEBSTER	No, siree, it didn't. And it won't -- no matter what happens -- just as long as the folks at the fair believe in freedom and Union. So --  Giddyap, Constitution -- and let's keep going, Mr. Stone.

MARY	Yes, you did, Daniel! I saw it from the window. And then to lie about it! Give me that beanshooter, Daniel!
DANIEL	It's mine, Ma! Pa made it for me -- and I'm not going to give it to anyone!
MARY	Daniel give me that beanshooter!
DANIEL	No! No! I won't.
MARY	Daniel! ...  I've stood just about as much as I can bear!

MARY	Daniel, you ought to be in bed.
DANIEL	No, no, I don't want to go to bed. I want to be here for the party.

DANIEL	Mama!
MARY	Daniel! ... You must go to sleep.
DANIEL	I don't want to be up there all alone, Mama.... I want to be with you.
MARY	All right, darling.

DANIEL	Granny, when do we move to the new house?
MA STONE	Move? -- We are not going to move -- the old one is good enough for us.
DANIEL	But I like the new one better.
MA STONE	That's just too bad --

MA STONE	Lan's to goodness, what happened to that hen? Did you use that beanshooter again?
DANIEL	I did not, Grandma.

DANIEL	Grandma, look at me!
MA STONE	I see you! Riding pretty high, ain't you? Look out you don't fall off.
DANIEL	Not me! 

HANK	Howdy, Jabez.
JABEZ	Howdy, Hank.
HANK	Kin you spare a moment for me Jabez?
JABEZ	Why, of course, Hank -- I've always got time for a neighbor. What's on your mind?
HANK	Well -- here's how it is ...Tom Sharp, Eli Higgins and a couple of others been talking to me about -- that new sort of organization -- grange they call it. What you think about it?
JABEZ	I don't know -- don't seem much of an idea to me.
HANK	Yes, but what does a farmer do if he don't want to get roped in some more by them loan sharks?
JABEZ	Oh -- you don't have to go to Miser Stevens while I'm around.
HANK	Don't I? ... Say, that's mighty white of you, Jabez.
JABEZ	Not at all, Hank ... not at all. Glad to help you.
HANK	Thanks, Jabez -- I really wouldn't need very much ... if you could let me have some seed to start off with enough for spring planting ...

HANK	Say ... about the interest ...
JABEZ	Now don't you worry about that. You just leave it all to me. We won't talk business now ... just bear this in mind ... I'm not the man to get rich on other people's hard luck.... No, sir... not me! ...

TOM SHARP	Loan shark -- hey?
JABEZ	Too bad it didn't happen to Miser Stevens.
TOM SHARP	Are you one of old Stevens' customers too?
JABEZ	Sure am.
TOM SHARP	Yes, it's the debt and the lien and the mortgage that eats up the farmer!

JABEZ	Sure does. But I'll have to sleep on it a couple of nights.
TOM SHARP	That's fair enough, Jabez. Man's got a right to mull things over. We'll drive round again, week or so.

JABEZ	I am just thinkin' -- now they mightn't like the idea down in Washington.
TOM SHARP	Why not! There's a bill up in Congress to give us a uniform law of bankruptcy. Daniel Webster is fighting for it right now--
JABEZ	Black Dan'l?

JABEZ	What do you want?
TOM SHARP	Howdy, Mr. Stone. We've come round to ask you if you made up your mind to join the Grange?
JABEZ	What Grange?
TOM SHARP	That farmers' association -- we were talking about the other day.

TOM SHARP	Well -- we don't mean to force you, Jabez Stone -- but -- it's only for your own good.
JABEZ	I'll look out for myself! ... Now go away -- leave me alone.

TOM SHARP	Jabez -- will you join our Grange now?
JABEZ	Why, thank you, Tom. I was going to ask you if you thought I could.
TOM SHARP	We'll be mighty glad to have you with us.

JABEZ	You're not -- Dorothy.
THE WOMAN	No. She's gone.
JABEZ	She couldn't be gone!
THE WOMAN	But she is -- I've taken her place. Don't you remember -- you wrote me a letter. Mrs. Stone was too ill.

JABEZ	Never mind. What's your name?
THE WOMAN	Belle.
JABEZ	Belle --

JABEZ	Stevens!
STEVENS	Well, Stone -- have you got the money?
JABEZ	I barely managed to scrape up a bit for you. I thought if I made a kind of part payment --
STEVENS	No, Stone!
JABEZ	-- in gold.
STEVENS	I'd like to know where you'd get it....
JABEZ	You know -- some folks are just lucky. Others pick gold right out of the air.  Like that!
STEVENS	Real! Sheriff, you are a witness that this money is paid me voluntarily, and while it does not satisfy the mortgage, it has become my property.
JABEZ	Doesn't satisfy, eh? Well -- that's too bad....

STEVENS	Mornin', Jabez ...
JABEZ	Hello, Stevens ... you're early today.
STEVENS	Yes, I wanted to get here before the others.... I want to talk to you alone.
JABEZ	Some other time, Stevens.

STEVENS	Good evening -- I'm sorry, Jabez -- I'm a little late.
JABEZ	No, you're not.
STEVENS	Where's everybody?
JABEZ	I dunno -- I can't figure it out. I've invited them all. Why don't they come?

JABEZ	Now run along, Daniel.
STEVENS	What a fine boy you have, Jabez. How old is he now?
JABEZ	Almost seven.  No -- no, he's not seven yet I am sure --
STEVENS	Well -- it seems to me -- I remember when you paid me--

JABEZ	What's the matter with you?
STEVENS	You are afraid!
JABEZ	Afraid ... of what?
STEVENS	-- of what happens after we die!
JABEZ	Are you plumb crazy, man! What do you think happens? We're buried -- that's all.
STEVENS	But what becomes of our souls?
JABEZ	Why do you fret about something that isn't there?
STEVENS	Don't say that -- I know it is --
JABEZ	All right -- so it's buried with you!
STEVENS	What if one hasn't a soul any more? What of that?
JABEZ	Huh? -- What's that?  Well -- what about it? Who cares, anyhow?
STEVENS	I do -- and I think you should too.
JABEZ	Stevens -- what's all this leading up to? You know something. Come on! Out with it -- you know something about me!

SCRATCH	Do you deny that you called me? I've known people in other States who went back on their word. But I didn't expect it in New Hampshire.
JABEZ	You can't say that to me! I'm New Hampshire. If I say I called you, I did.  I guess I did.
SCRATCH	You've had a lot of bad luck these days. And yet -- it's all so unnecessary. When I think of your opportunities --
JABEZ	Opportunities?
SCRATCH	Of course. Why man, you have one of the richest farms in the county.  You just go about it the wrong way -- so many men do. Hard work -- well, that's all right for people who don't know how to do anything else. It's all right for people who aren't lucky -- but once you're lucky -- you don't work for other people. You make them work for you.
JABEZ	Well, now, Mister, that sounds all right. But--
SCRATCH	A clever man like yourself -- he can find money anywhere. Money to pay his bills -- money for his wife and his children -- money to be a rich man. All he needs is a friend to point it out to him.  Like that!

JABEZ	Where did it come from?
SCRATCH	Oh, you know the old story -- the Hessian wagon train that was ambushed on the way to Saratoga. Some of the gold has been buried under your barn!
JABEZ	Yes, why shouldn't it?
SCRATCH	Yes, of course, people forgot -- or the men who knew about it died, you know how these things happen.

JABEZ	It's mine?
SCRATCH	That's right, Mr. Stone -- there is --  -- just one little formality. I'd like your signature here -- see. And when it's done -- it's done for seven years.  It's our usual form. Of course -- we may be able to take up the question of a renewal in due time.
JABEZ	What does it mean here -- about my soul?
SCRATCH	Well, why should that worry you. A soul -- a soul is nothing. Can you see it, smell it, touch it? -- No! -- Think of it -- this soul -- your soul -- a nothing, against seven whole years of good luck! You will have money and all that money can buy. Upon my word, Neighbor Stone, if it weren't for my firm's reputation for generous dealing--

JABEZ	No, no! Give it to me!
SCRATCH	A pin, Neighbor Stone! I'm afraid, you'll have to prick your finger -- but what's a little pain to a lucky man?

SCRATCH	Excellent. A firm, fair signature. One that will last till doomsday.  My dear Neighbor Stone, I congratulate you! You're going to be the richest man in New Hampshire! 
JABEZ	Well, I'll be -- 
SCRATCH	Yes, indeed. But not now. Not for seven years. Oh, I almost forgot -- what is the date?
JABEZ	The seventh day of April --
SCRATCH	1840. Well, that'll take us to the seventh day of April in 1847.

SCRATCH	Good evening, Neighbor Stone.
JABEZ	Look here now--
SCRATCH	Oh come, Neighbor Stone. I wouldn't cut that tree if I were you. It means a breach of contract.
JABEZ	I don't care.
SCRATCH	But you should, now that you are becoming a father.
JABEZ	Leave your tongue off of that!
SCRATCH	Oh, certainly. I shan't even come to the christening -- it would be tactless and in wretched bad taste.  But I may send a friend of mine -- just for old sake's sake. Yes, I might do that.

SCRATCH	Why, Mr. Stone, you look so worried. Can I be of any service?
JABEZ	You promised me prosperity, happiness, love, money, friendship --
SCRATCH	Just a minute, neighbor Stone. I promised you money and all that money can buy. I don't recall any other obligations. But let's look at the contract.

SCRATCH	.... Miser Stevens' soul, Mr. Stone. Yes -- I am sorry for the disturbance.
JABEZ	He ain't dead -- he's dancing in there.
SCRATCH	He was --

JABEZ	Are they all as -- small -- as that?
SCRATCH	Small? Oh, I see what you mean. Why, they vary.  Now a man like Daniel Webster, if I ever get hold of him, I'd have to build a special box for him and even at that, I imagine, the wing spread would be astonishing.  In your case --
JABEZ	My time isn't up yet.

SCRATCH	Trying to break our contract again, Mr. Stone?
JABEZ	I'm through with you.
SCRATCH	What a headstrong fellow! Well -- I guess you're quite prepared to suffer the consequences.
JABEZ	I have still a year -- a year to make up for everything.
SCRATCH	Oh no, you violated clause five of our contract and I could collect right now, if I chose.
JABEZ	Not now! Not now!  -- Let me make up -- let me make up.
SCRATCH	Suddenly you seem quite desperate, Mr. Stone --  -- You know I'm a good-natured man. I'm always open to reason. With a little security -- I might--
JABEZ	Anything -- anything. -- You can have it all back -- that money -- the new house -- my farm -- the whole caboodle!
SCRATCH	I'm afraid that's hardly the sort of security I was thinking of --  You see -- there is that promising little fellow, your son ...
JABEZ	No! No! No! Not him -- not my son -- I'd rather go with you -- right now.
SCRATCH	Come, come, Mr. Stone, you are a little upset. It's not fair to bargain with you now. -- I'll give you until midnight, Mr. Stone, but not one minute more. Ah, then you'll come with me indeed.

SCRATCH	Well now, Mr. Stone, did you make up your mind?
JABEZ	About what?
SCRATCH	Are you willing to give me your son in exchange for an extension of our contract?
JABEZ	Never!

SCRATCH	Jabez Stone -- did you or did you not sign this document?
JABEZ	Yes, I did -- but you tricked me into signing it! You told me my soul was nothing ... that I could forget all about a soul, in exchange for money. That was a lie, a lie, a lie.
SCRATCH	That is highly irrelevant to this case, Your Honor.

JABEZ	Yes -- yes, I am the richest man -- too rich. I can't think of anything but money. That's the trouble with me.
SCRATCH	But, Mr. Stone, I am hardly to blame for the pricking of your wholly unnecessary conscience.  Is this your signature?
JABEZ	You know darn well it is.
SCRATCH	Gentlemen, the prosecution rests.

JABEZ	Ten throws -- Mr. Webster?
WEBSTER	Ten throws it is.

WEBSTER	You win. Will you ride to the village with me, Mr. Stone?
JABEZ	Thank you, Mr. Webster.

WEBSTER	I don't seem to be so very popular after all -- in Cross Corners.
JABEZ	Seems like it's my fault, Mr. Webster.
WEBSTER	Not at all, lad -- not at all.  For a good game of horseshoes I would always sacrifice fame and acclaim.

WEBSTER	Here's a man who knows what's good for Dan'l Webster! Medford rum! Ah, a breath of the Promised Land!  To the champion of the Iron Horseshoe, Jabez Stone!
JABEZ	Thanks, Mr. Webster!  To the champion of the whole United States -- Dan'l Webster!

WEBSTER	Eloquent speech, Neighbor Stone -- couldn't have done better myself --  -- under the circumstances.  Thank you.
JABEZ	Mr. Webster -- I'd like you to meet my wife, Mary.
WEBSTER	Well -- I'll be -- if it isn't little Mary Sampson from Franklin.

JABEZ	Well -- Mr. Webster! This is a great day for me. Come on in, sir. I want you to take the seat of honor and meet all my guests!
WEBSTER	That's just fine, Neighbor Stone -- but -- I have to be pretty careful of my seats of honor -- where I sit, I mean. You see, the whole country sort of has its eye on me, Jabez -- anybody in public life has that difficulty -- even you, Jabez. They watch us carefully, our neighbors and our enemies, and they see much more than we think they do -- and understand much more. My friends all like to think that I've got the good of mankind always at heart, and I've got to make sure that those I deal with have the good of mankind always at heart, too. Do you know what I'm talking about, Jabez?
JABEZ	What -- what's on your mind?
WEBSTER	You, Jabez Stone -- you and a lot of poor farmers, hereabouts -- good men of the earth who are in trouble because of you. Or -- am I wrong about those contracts, Mr. Stone?
JABEZ	Contracts? -- Yes, they have contracts with me -- lots of 'em -- but -- but that's all right. Without me and my money, they wouldn't have anything.
WEBSTER	They'd have a good neighbor, Jabez -- and that's worth much more than anything else -- much, much more!

WEBSTER	I'm sorry you can't see that, I know you could once -- you made a little speech once, that I'll always remember and I know the others do too --  They remember and they see how you have changed. That's why they didn't want to come tonight to you, Jabez -- you're as blind as a Burma bat, with your gold pot! Mind you, it's not the money, I've been talking about, it's what you make of it.
JABEZ	I -- I don't know what you're talking about! I -- I haven't time to listen to all this --
WEBSTER	No -- you haven't time -- You haven't time for your mother, or your wife, or your child.
JABEZ	It's your fault! You brought Daniel Webster here -- just to try to make a fool of me! You played the sneak behind my back -- made up all sorts of lies against me! You can get yourself out of my home -- go back to the other house -- that old place, where you belong -- I don't want to -- to talk to you again!

WEBSTER	It's here you said that you closed the deal with him?
JABEZ	Yes, Mr. Webster -- it was here where it all began.
WEBSTER	I see. And this is where he'd like to collect, too.
JABEZ	Yes -- at midnight.

WEBSTER	They make plucky women in New England.  H'm ... how long have we to wait?
JABEZ	Not long -- now.
WEBSTER	Then I'll just christen the jug, with your permission, Stone. Somehow or other, waiting's wonderfully shorter with a jug.

WEBSTER	There's nothing like it. I saw an inchworm take a drop of it once, and he stood right up on his hind legs and bit a bee. Come -- try a nip!
JABEZ	There's no joy in it for me.
WEBSTER	Oh, come, man, come. Just because you've sold your soul to the devil that needn't make you a teetotaler.

WEBSTER	You were worried, Jabez, weren't you?
JABEZ	Well, I --
WEBSTER	I know -- that was mighty queer Medford -- knew it the minute I tasted it. But it takes more than that to down Daniel Webster.

JABEZ	Ma says breakfast's ready, Mr. Webster!
WEBSTER	Breakfast ... Ah! ... Come along friends, Ma Stone's a cook this side of heaven.

SQUIRE	Coming along, Jabez?
JABEZ	Shall we?

JABEZ	Why -- good morning, Squire.
SQUIRE	Morning, Jabez.

SQUIRE	Ahem -- we want to have a little confidential talk with you, Neighbor Stone. Don't like to take a man away from his planting -- but sometimes --
JABEZ	Come right into the parlor, won't you, folks.

JABEZ	Mighty good of you to come out, Squire -- sparing all this time to --  Sheriff, too -- and Schoolmaster -- mighty nice.
SQUIRE	Ahem -- Neighbor Stone, we want--

SQUIRE	Oh!
JABEZ	Headache -- Squire?
SQUIRE	Worst I had in years -- ahem -- starting a spring cold, I guess -- er -- don't happen to have a bit of camomile tea in the house, do you, Stone?
JABEZ	Camomile tea!

SQUIRE	And so, Jabez Stone, in the name of the Whig Party of Cross Corners, we offer you the nomination of that party for Selectman.
JABEZ	Selectman? Selectman of the village? Me?

JABEZ	But -- I was just lucky.
SQUIRE	Well? Don't a politician have to be?

JABEZ	Howdy, Squire! Howdy! Oh -- how do you do, Squire.
SQUIRE	How do you do, Belle? How are you, Jabez?  Well -- mighty elegant house you got here.
JABEZ	You really think so?

SQUIRE	Well, Jabez -- I'm a little pressed for time. You wanted to discuss something -- some business --
JABEZ	Oh yes -- yes. Won't take a minute. Can you keep a secret?
SQUIRE	Why of course --
JABEZ	Dan'l Webster is coming to my party.
SQUIRE	Dan'l Webster?
JABEZ	Yes -- and that's the reason I wanted to talk with you. You got my invitation?
SQUIRE	Yes.
JABEZ	Now look -- here's a list of the people I invited -- they're all the right kind of people -- or did I miss anybody?
SQUIRE	The only one you missed -- is the President.
JABEZ	You think that's a joke? I had him on there too, but I was afraid Dan'l Webster might feel insulted.

JABEZ	You keep that -- that's for you. I want you to talk up the party to make sure that the best folks really come.
SQUIRE	You want me to go around --
JABEZ	Yes  siree -- that's the idea. Get them all here and then say: "Look, folks -- here's Daniel Webster, my guest of honor." Golly, I can see their eyes pop already.
SQUIRE	You mean that's all you had me come out here for?
JABEZ	Now, Squire, you're not going to let me down. We still want to do a lot of business together, don't we?
SQUIRE	Well -- yes --
JABEZ	That's fine. Now you can tell people all about the house, but don't mention Webster.
SQUIRE	You are not so sure that he'll come.
JABEZ	Oh yes -- I am -- want to bet?
SQUIRE	Why not -- ?
JABEZ	How much?
SQUIRE	5000 -- that's just what I owe you.
JABEZ	Shake!















JABEZ	 ... and if the final vote shall leave thousands of our fellow citizens and their families in hopeless distress, can we -- members of the Government -- go to our beds with a clear conscience, can we, without self- reproach, supplicate the Almighty Mercy to forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors?
L164170	u4828	m322	JABEZ	It's Tom Sharp and two other fellers -- Oh, glory -- where's my pants?
L164169	u4831	m322	MARY	Who is it?
L164168	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Well, I'll be -- there's a rig, turning in, by the gate.
L164158	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Hold the splint tighter -- it's almost done.  Go on reading, Ma. This man, Job, he had troubles, didn't he?
L164157	u4831	m322	MARY	He's stubborn as a Stone.
L164152	u4828	m322	JABEZ	That's what we said.
L164151	u4831	m322	MARY	Jabez, don't you remember your own wedding? We said it's for better or worse. We said it's for richer or poorer.
L164150	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I remember Dad used to say sometimes, when they were handing out hard luck, the farmers got there first.
L164149	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Yep.
L164148	u4831	m322	MARY	Oh, Jabez.
L164147	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I think his leg is broken.
L164140	u4828	m322	JABEZ	You're right, Mary.
L164139	u4831	m322	MARY	Now, Jabez! I've got on my Sunday bonnet and I'm going to church with my husband. Almost the first time since the beginning of winter -- and if that isn't an occasion, I don't know what is.
L164138	u4828	m322	JABEZ	What is that smile on your face?  Is there anything wrong with me?
L164134	u4828	m322	JABEZ	All right -- only he needn't dirty my pants!
L164133	u4831	m322	MARY	He only wants you to throw the stick for him, Jabez. I guess he's feeling the spring a-coming, too.
L164132	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Down, Shep! Down!
L164131	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Coming.
L164130	u4831	m322	MARY	Jabez -- help!
L165025	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Of course it's all right, son. You had Daniel Webster, didn't ye?  Breakfast's ready!  I've made a special surprise for Mr. Webster.
L165024	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Ma -- Ma -- it's all right, Ma!
L164915	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Gone with Daniel Webster -- to Marshfield, son.... You told Mary to go--
L164914	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Ma! ...  Where's Mary ... and little Dan'l?
L164913	u4829	m322	MA STONE	My son ... what's the matter?
L164654	u4829	m322	MA STONE	And I say she won't! I'll not have the scorn of God on this place -- with the smell of fish in it, polluting up the Sabbath!  And as for you -- let me tell you, young woman...!
L164653	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I want you to fix these fish!
L164604	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Sure, Ma.
L164603	u4829	m322	MA STONE	You go down and see what's keeping Dorothy.
L164594	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Fiddlesticks! She don't hear it. Got better music to listen to than that.  There -- that's what I mean.
L164593	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Golly, Ma --  Consarn that music! Shouldn't a-had the harvest festival tonight.
L164592	u4829	m322	MA STONE	You'll be a father any minute now.
L164591	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Ma -- is she? --
L164569	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Make out? We'll do better than that!  I never thought I'd be glad for bad luck, but I am. I never thought I'd be glad of a hail storm at harvest time, but I am! Oh, bless ye the works of the Lord in the hail and the storm and the rain!
L164568	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Now that's the way to talk, Son! I know you worked hard for that crop. But we'll make out.
L164567	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I say -- it don't matter.
L164566	u4829	m322	MA STONE	What's that you say, Son?
L164565	u4828	m322	JABEZ	It don't matter!
L164564	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Oh, here you are, Jabez. Lan's, I was worried about you.... Hail in August! The crops will be ruined!
L164553	u4829	m322	MA STONE	A man can always change things, Son. That's what makes him different from barnyard critters.
L164552	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Ma -- and yet, a man could change that, couldn't he?
L164551	u4829	m322	MA STONE	You see, son? I'm old and I've lived. When a man gets his money in bad ways -- when he sees the better course and takes the worse -- then the devil is in his heart -- and that fixes him.
L164550	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Wouldn't profit him none.
L164549	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I know, Ma, but -- Suppose a man got his money in bad ways --
L164548	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Why, that's just sense, Son. Now a man like Daniel Webster -- guess they pay him high for what he does. But he's worth it -- and he helps others. Makes all the difference.
L164547	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Do you really think that?
L164546	u4829	m322	MA STONE	I figure that depends a mite on how you get it and how you spend it, Son.
L164545	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Money -- money's a funny thing, ain't it, Ma?
L164544	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Me -- a son.
L164543	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Lan's, I'd think you was having the baby, to hear you.
L164542	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I feel -- fidgety, Ma -- not right at all.
L164541	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Well, thank the Lord you can always depend on New England for weather. We've got enough for the whole United States.
L164540	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Queer sort of weather we're having -- queer like everything else.
L164538	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Oh, go along with you! As if it mattered to a grandma! But p'raps you got an even chance.
L164537	u4828	m322	JABEZ	My son! Do you really think, Ma....
L164536	u4829	m322	MA STONE	It won't be the first baby ever born in this house.  There! Made me drop a stitch!  Sit down, you make me nervous!  Lan's, that's the way a man always is. Thinks his son's the most important thing in the world.
L164516	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Now look here, Ma. I'm not a boy anymore. I want that understood. I don't aim to stay a one-horse farmer the rest of my life. Mary's got to be the kind of wife a -- a big man needs --
L164515	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Well, son, I'm glad to see a Stone come up in the world again.
L164324	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Say, Mary, how is your shoulder?
L164323	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Well -- that's comforting!  Supper.
L164319	u4828	m322	JABEZ	But it's true. Take 'em up in your hands, Mary -- feel 'em -- they're real all right.  Aren't you glad?
L164318	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Most outlandish thing I ever heard tell.  Don't seem right, somehow!
L164317	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Yes -- I was getting the seed -- I stumbled -- I saw one of the boards warped up a bit -- and -- there it was.
L164316	u4829	m322	MA STONE	You found it in the barn, hey?
L164260	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I can't help it. I mean it, I tell you. I've had more than my share. Nothing ever goes right for me -- nothing!
L164259	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Hush up such talk, Jabez!
L164258	u4828	m322	JABEZ	And why should I? Let him howl if it makes him feel good.  Consarn it. He's better off than I am! I wish I could tell Him...  ... up there, just what I think.
L164257	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Well ... make him keep quiet.
L164256	u4828	m322	JABEZ	I dunno.
L164255	u4829	m322	MA STONE	What's ailing that dog?
L164246	u4829	m322	MA STONE	All right, son -- if it helps.
L164245	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Helps sometimes to say it.
L164244	u4829	m322	MA STONE	That's a word you're too free with lately, Jabez, consarn this and consarn that ...
L164243	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Yes -- and you figgered right, consarn it!
L164242	u4829	m322	MA STONE	I just figgered -- knew you didn't have enough bills.
L164241	u4828	m322	JABEZ	How'd you know to have the calf ready, Ma?
L164164	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Not on the Sabbath you won't, Jabez!
L164163	u4828	m322	JABEZ	There! Guess that ought to hold good. Put him down here, by the fire, Mary.  But we don't want to get him too close -- we'll have roast pork for supper.
L164162	u4828	m322	JABEZ	That's right, Ma -- we ain't licked yet. A Stone's never licked till he's dead -- that's what Dad used to say, didn't he, Ma?
L164161	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Now, Jabez Stone -- as for what you're calling hard luck -- well, we made New England out of it. That and codfish.
L164160	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Hard luck -- like me.
L164159	u4829	m322	MA STONE	You know that, son.
L164156	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Sorry, Ma -- but this consar-- this little pig --  He won't let me fix him --
L164155	u4829	m322	MA STONE	Jabez! What kind of talk is that for the Sabbath? And me a-reading the holy word!
L164154	u4828	m322	JABEZ	Consarn the consarn --
L164153	u4829	m322	MA STONE	There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil."
MARY	That's wonderful language. It would move a stone.
JABEZ	If it would only move old Miser Stevens -- We've still got to pay him.

JABEZ	Well -- what are we going to do?
MARY	We can still use my butter money.
JABEZ	Your butter money?
MARY	Do you think I'm grudging it?
JABEZ	Mary -- it's gone.
MARY	Not all of it?
JABEZ	Yes -- I had to pay the vet in full. He just wouldn't have treated the horse this time. After all, we can't very well do without a horse.
MARY	It's all right, Jabez. We'll find something to pay Stevens.
JABEZ	If the pig hadn't broke his leg, we could have taken him.
MARY	Jabez! Couldn't you take a sack of seed instead?
JABEZ	To save us work on the spring plowing?
MARY	You always said, the field uphill needs a rest, but if you think --
JABEZ	Mary, I'm a farmer -- always will be. To me seed isn't a thing to pay debts with, it's alive, more alive than anything -- but I guess you're right. We just got to do it. Oh -- how's it all going to end?
MARY	Jabez -- you ought to talk to Tom about joining the Grange.
JABEZ	I will, Mary -- always thought a man could be stronger alone -- seems I've been wrong about that.

MARY	Jabez!
JABEZ	Seed alone won't do, Mary. We have to throw the calf in.
MARY	Oh Jabez! And we were counting on ...  It's a lovely calf.
JABEZ	You're right, Mary it's a fine calf. That's why Stevens'll take it for the rest of the payment.

JABEZ	Mary--
MARY	Jabez ...
JABEZ	Mary -- how do you feel?

JABEZ	I'll get the doctor.
MARY	No, Jabez -- all I need is some rest -- You go and pay our debt. Everything'll be all right then ... everything.

JABEZ	Mary -- what would you do with a pot o' gold?
MARY	Jabez!
JABEZ	Mary -- what would you do?
MARY	Well -- I -- I don't know -- I would pay our debts and well -- maybe get a new bonnet, but -- really -- I think I would live the same.
JABEZ	Mary -- look! Hessian gold. I found it in the barn.

MARY	It feels fine now, Jabez.
JABEZ	Will you come into town with me tomorrow?
MARY	I'd love to.

MARY	What do you think of that, Jabez?
JABEZ	Looks right elegant, Mary.

MARY	We must go on home, Jabez.
JABEZ	Yes, Mary.  It's been a long day.

JABEZ	Remember, Mary, how he said it: "Couldn't have done better myself, Jabez Stone," and it was my first speech. I don't know what came into me, Mary. I just stood up and the words came flowing like water out of my mouth.
MARY	Oh, Jabez -- it was a wonderful day --

MARY	But I'm glad to be home again --
JABEZ	Tired?
MARY	Worried!
JABEZ	There is nothing to worry about now.
MARY	You'll never change -- will you?
JABEZ	Mary -- you just wait and see -- It's all -- just the beginning -- just the beginning -- of everything. I'll be the biggest man in New Hampshire and you'll be the wife of the biggest man.

MARY	There's hope and promise in it, Jabez -- Planting and promise of good harvest to come.
JABEZ	Yes -- you are right, Mary. I can almost hear the little blades of grass a-starting up -- All the seeds a-stirring underneath the ground --
MARY	Don't take cold, Jabez.  Come -- it's warm in here.

JABEZ	Mary --
MARY	Jabez --

JABEZ	Mary, get three cups of camomile tea for the Squire and the rest. They all feel colds coming on.
MARY	I'll get it, Jabez.
JABEZ	Thanks, Mary.

JABEZ	Mary! I'm -- Selectman of Cross Corners!
MARY	Oh -- Jabez.

JABEZ	You could have knocked me down with a feather -- Selectman -- me.
MARY	I'll never get my washing done.
JABEZ	That's one thing I want to talk to you about, Mary.
MARY	Yes, Mr. Selectman!
JABEZ	I'm serious.
MARY	It's very becoming to you, Mr. Selectman.
JABEZ	But it's not very becoming to you to have your hands in the suds -- when the Squire and his wife --
MARY	But Jabez -- the washing has to be done --
JABEZ	Well -- that's the last time -- we'll have servants to do it.
MARY	No, no. I don't want to be idle.
JABEZ	And I don't want to have a washwoman for a wife.

MARY	Jabez -- once you said we'd never change --
JABEZ	I wasn't used to being big -- wasn't used to thinking in big ways. Now, I've made up my mind.

MARY	Ruined -- all the fields -- ruined. 
JABEZ	Mary -- but look -- it didn't touch an ear of my corn -- we'll have a rich harvest.

JABEZ	Mary --
MARY	Hello, Jabez --  Here's your son.

JABEZ	Well -- I -- I-
MARY	Don't be cross with him, Ma. This don't happen every day.

MARY	Potato bug sits on the leaf in the sun, Sleep, sleep, my baby -- Raccoon sits in the spruce all night, Sleep, baby, sleep --
JABEZ	What in sugar hill's the matter with him?
MARY	Nothing, Jabez -- just natural for a baby to cry, sometimes.  Shh, little Daniel -- sleep -- sleep --

JABEZ	What happened.... Where are you taking him?
MARY	I am going to lock him up.
JABEZ	You're not supposed to punish my son, Mary.

MARY	Jabez -- how can you let her talk like that when the boy is present? He won't respect me any more.
JABEZ	Isn't that your own fault?
MARY	My fault? ... Oh, Jabez -- all I want is to be proud of him. He can be such a fine boy, if we show him how to be.
JABEZ	He's my son and I like him the way he is. Why do you always have to pick on him? If it's not the boy it's me. You don't like the way I live -- you don't like my friends, or my new house -- or anything.
MARY	But Jabez, I never said that!
JABEZ	It shows on your face.
MARY	Well -- I am worried about the way you've changed. That was one thing you said you'd never do -- remember?
JABEZ	Oh, for heaven's sake, leave me alone!

JABEZ	Why don't they come --
MARY	I don't know, Jabez.

JABEZ	Think this room is larger than anything Webster's got at Marshfield? You've been there. What about it, Mary?
MARY	It's -- different, Jabez -- that's all.
JABEZ	What's the matter with 'em? Why don't they come?

JABEZ	Mr. Webster ... Wait! ...  Mary!
MARY	Jabez!
JABEZ	Mary! Come back ...
MARY	Oh, Jabez! ...  Did you hear, Mr. Webster? --  Now you'll help him, won't you?

JABEZ	You must go now, Mary -- you must!
MARY	All right, Jabez ...

MARY	Jabez -- Jabez!
JABEZ	Mary!





































SHERIFF	Yep -- you can't get around that mortgage. -- I'm sorry, Jabez.
JABEZ	It's all right, Sheriff.
SHERIFF	Wish I could really do something for you. But you know Stevens. He'll throw you off your farm tomorrow if you don't pay him tonight.
JABEZ	Let him try it.
SHERIFF	The law is the law. Good-bye, Mary.

JABEZ	Hello, Sheriff.
SHERIFF	Hello, Jabez -- I was just talking to Stevens about a little extension on your payment.
JABEZ	And you didn't get it, hey? Come on, we'll have another talk with him.

SHERIFF	It seems such an obvious candidature to us all.
JABEZ	Very well, folks. I accept.

JABEZ	Come in, Sheriff.
SHERIFF	Jabez -- seems  like I've been hearing talk around. Reverend Harper thinks more Cross Corners folk oughter be in church, Sabbath morning.
JABEZ	Belle, give the Sheriff a cup of rum.

MARY	You throw mighty far, Jabez -- almost into the pigsty.
MA STONE	Mary -- Jabez --
MARY	Coming, Ma.

MA STONE	Well, I guess we won't be going to church today.
MARY	I guess we won't.

MARY	That is -- if you don't mind changing the lesson, Ma.
MA STONE	Land sakes, I don't mind. I never did hold much with Job, even if he is Scripture. He took on too much to suit me. I don't want to malign the man, but he always sounded to me as if he came from Massachusetts. Yes, Mary, you go ahead and read.

MA STONE	Let her be, son. She'll do all right. You better get yourself straightened out.
MARY	Yes, Jabez -- don't worry.

MARY	I'll try hard -- I just can't take it all in.
MA STONE	H'm. Hessian gold. Well -- hope it'll do us more good than it did the Hessians.

MARY	You know, Ma, why the Squire came to see Jabez?
MA STONE	Yes, Mrs. Slossum told me -- Lucy can't even keep a secret -- Selectman -- my son -- well, who would have thought of that?

MARY	What a nice -- and kind girl --  Who is she --?
MA STONE	The new girl -- Jabez says; she is from over the mountain.
MARY	What mountain?

MA STONE	Mary! Ready? First bell's a-ringing!
MARY	Yes, Ma -- I'm ready --

MA STONE	She'll do nothing of the kind! She's going to church with me, right away!
MARY	Jabez -- for the good of your soul ... please come with us.

MA STONE	Fox hunting -- a Stone going fox hunting on a week day -- and the earth crying out for the touch of him!
MARY	Now, Ma -- You just try to set an example for me, and keep hold of yourself.
MA STONE	Me? Why, look here, Mary Stone -- I'm worried about you, that's all.
MARY	Worried about me! Well, you just stop it!
MA STONE	What's that?
MARY	I said you should stop worrying because I've made up my mind!

MA STONE	So you've made up your mind to go to the party.
MARY	You aren't angry with me?
MA STONE	Ah, fiddlesticks -- you are old enough to know what you are doing.

MA STONE	Be sure to let me know if Daniel is over there.
MARY	I won't forget.

WEBSTER	What are you looking for, Colonel?  What's your name?
MARTIN	Martin Van Buren Aldrich and my Pa's the only Democrat in Cross Corners. He said you had horns and a tall, Mr. Webster, but I ain't seen 'em yet.
WEBSTER	Well, Martin, I only wear them in Washington -- that's the trouble. But if you ever come down there, I'll show them to you.
MARTIN	Gee, would you, Mr. Webster? Honest?
WEBSTER	Of course. And you tell your father for me -- we may be on opposite sides of the fence, but I'm always glad to hear of a man who holds to his own opinions. As long as people do that -- the country's all right. Do you understand, Martin?
MARTIN	Yes, sir -- I guess I do -- Gee --

MARY	It is.
WEBSTER	You've got a smart man, Mrs. Stone. Hang onto him.
MARY	-- I'm going to try, Mr. Webster.

WEBSTER	Well Mary, it's too bad I didn't know -- I would have given you a real dinner, but with my wife being in Washington -- Have another piece of pie -- 
MARY	No, really, thank you. -- Is Mrs. Webster coming back soon?
WEBSTER	Well -- she hardly ever comes here -- she's not the type of woman who cares to live in the country. Yes -- I'm all on my own -- sometimes it makes you feel a little lonely --  Do you mind if I indulge?
MARY	Of course not --
WEBSTER	No, you wouldn't -- You're not the sort of woman that's afraid of smoke -- or fire -- But now let's talk about your affairs.
MARY	Goodness, Mr. Webster, I've done nothing but talk about that all through dinner.
WEBSTER	Yes, you've chatted a lot, woman-like nibbling around the edge -- But, Mary, forgive an old lawyer's legal mind, I don't think you ever once came to the point. And there is a point, isn't there?
MARY	Why -- yes -- it's hard to put it into words, Mr. Webster. There's this matter of little Daniel's schooling and the new house -- and well -- there's something else that's wrong -- it gets worse, year after year -- it's like a shadow growing -- I can't really talk about it, even to Ma -- she puts it all on Jabez and I won't stand for that.
WEBSTER	I've heard some odd things about Jabez lately -- he seems to make the wrong kind of name for himself.
MARY	Mr. Webster, you mustn't believe all that people say.
WEBSTER	You don't have to defend him to me, Mary -- I've been called names myself.
MARY	You see, I don't care if we are rich or poor -- I don't care if we're big or small, all I care about is Jabez. He was the first man I loved. He never used to care about money -- we were poor as Job's turkey, but none of us minded. Now I've seen him drive the poor from the door, and we used to be poor ourselves. I've seen him get hard and mean, and he isn't hard or mean. I've heard him mock at the church bells -- the bells that rang for our wedding. That's not like him, Mr. Webster -- It must be my fault somehow -- my fault.
WEBSTER	Mary -- you've talked to me as you might have talked to your father and I believe he wants me to help you a little. You see, sometimes we think we're licked in this life -- but we weren't put here to be licked. Don't you believe it. Sometimes the shadows seem to get hold of us -- the shadows and the evil -- but it is still up to us to fight. Now I was thinking before you came, of coming over to Cross Corners end of the month, to get acquainted with my Godson -- and other things.
MARY	Oh, could you, Mr. Webster ?
WEBSTER	And now come on, Mary. I want to show you the all-fired biggest parsnips in the whole United States, raised right here in Marshfield -- of course!

MARY	Oh -- Mr. Webster -- I'm so glad you came!
WEBSTER	Are you, Mary?  Well, I guess I'm glad myself -- seeing as how you feel this way.  Party seems to be quite a success.  Lots of guests, anyhow.

MARY	Jabez ...
WEBSTER	Mary -- what love and trust could do for your husband, you've done. And frankly, in a very few moments, this is going to be no place for a lady.
MARY	Mr. Webster -- you will help him?
WEBSTER	I'll do my best, Mary.

WEBSTER	There is nothing like a good old country breakfast. Where's Ma?
MARY	She'll be here in a moment. She has a special surprise for you.

OLD FARMHAND'S VOICE	Hey there, Dan'l! Black Dan'l!
WEBSTER	Hullooo!
OLD FARMHAND'S VOICE	Someone to see you, Dan'l!
WEBSTER	If it's the British Minister, take him around to the pantry and give him some Madeira --
OLD FARMHAND'S VOICE	Just someone from New Hampshire!
WEBSTER	Why, that's different!  Well, boys, I guess we'll knock off. I've got to see a friend.

SCRATCH	It's only a short drive, Mr. Webster.
WEBSTER	Oh -- it's you again. What do you want?
SCRATCH	With the presidential election coming up, I thought I could be of some help, sir.
WEBSTER	I'd rather see you on the side of the opposition.
SCRATCH	I'll be there, too!

WEBSTER	Say, that's pretty good, young man.
SCRATCH	Pretty good -- that's perfect!

SCRATCH	Mr. Webster, I presume?
WEBSTER	Attorney of record for Jabez Stone. Might I ask your name?
SCRATCH	Scratch will do for the evening. May I -- join you?

WEBSTER	Why, certainly -- but be careful, Mr. Scratch -- Medford rum has an uncanny habit of kicking back, even with old-timers like yourself. 
SCRATCH	It even kicked back -- once at you, didn't it?
WEBSTER	Me?
SCRATCH	Oh ..  not that you ever get drunk! No, indeed! But a kind of overpowering lassitude or, more plainly, a deep and enveloping sleep.
WEBSTER	There isn't enough Medford rum in the whole of New Hampshire to make me sleepy. 
SCRATCH	Talk has never proved that question, Mr. Webster!  Cup for cup -- what do you say?
WEBSTER	Cup for cup!

SCRATCH	Your spirited efforts on behalf of your clients do you credit, Mr. Webster -- If you have no more arguments to adduce I'll take him along now.
WEBSTER	Not so fast, Mr. Scratch. Produce your evidence -- if you have it.
SCRATCH	There, Mr. Webster.  All open and above-board and in due and legal form.
WEBSTER	H'm. This appears -- I say appears -- to be properly drawn. But you shall not have this man! A man isn't property! Mr. Stone is an American citizen, and no American citizen may be forced into the service of a foreign prince.
SCRATCH	Foreign? And who calls me a foreigner?
WEBSTER	Well, I never heard the dev-- of your claiming American citizenship.
SCRATCH	And who with better right? When the first wrong was done to the first Indian, I was there. When the first slaver put out for the Congo, I stood on the deck. Am I not spoken of, still, in every church in New England? 'Tis true, the North claims me for a Southerner, and the South for a Northerner, but I am neither. To tell the truth, Mr. Webster, though I don't like to boast of it, my name is older in the country than yours.
WEBSTER	Then I stand on the Constitution! I demand a trial for my client.
SCRATCH	You mean -- a jury trial?
WEBSTER	I do! If I can't win this case with a jury, you shall have me, too. If two New Hampshire men aren't a match for the devil, we'd better give this country back to the Indians.
SCRATCH	Very well. -- You shall have your trial, Mr. Webster. The case is hardly one for an ordinary jury --
WEBSTER	Let it be the quick or the dead -- So it is an American judge and an American jury!
SCRATCH	The quick or the dead! You have said it.  May -- the best man win, Mr. Webster!
WEBSTER	I'll drink to that, Mr. Scratch!

SCRATCH	Your Honor -- gentlemen of the jury -- this case need not detain us long. It concerns one thing alone -- the transference, barter and sale of a certain piece of property, to wit, his soul by Jabez Stone. That transference, barter or sale is attested by a deed. I offer that deed in evidence and mark it Exhibit A.
WEBSTER	I object.

SCRATCH	My congratulations -- as between two gentlemen.
WEBSTER	Why, you long-barreled, slab-sided, lantern- jawed, note-shaving crook, be off with you ...

STEVENS	I wanted to give it all to the church.
SCRATCH	My money? Why, Mister Stevens? What a quaint idea. Come over to the door. I want to speak to you privately. Stop throwing away that money. We mustn't let people see any softness in you, Mister Stevens.... People take advantage of softness, you know. Come out of there -- I'll give you an extension if you'll forget this stupid repentance idea.
STEVENS	That isn't it. It's ... the loneliness, Mr. Scratch ... the loneliness!
SCRATCH	The loneliness? Lonely with all your gold, Mister Stevens? That hardly makes sense.
STEVENS	I want someone to talk to ...
SCRATCH	You can talk to me ...
STEVENS	No, no ...  I want to talk to men ... to people in Cross Corners ...to my neighbors ...
SCRATCH	Why don't you?
STEVENS	I can't be honest with them.
SCRATCH	Oh, that's what you want -- well, you can be perfectly honest with Jabez Stone -- now.

BISHOP	This is Drake Bishop.
CLAREMONT	<i>Mr. Bishop... this is Claremont Williams. I own the Williams Brothers armored car service.</i>
BISHOP	What happened to my money, Mr. Williams? <b> INT. CLAREMONT WILLIAMS III BOND AGENCY -- NEXT </b> Claremont sits behind his desk with his phone to his ear.
CLAREMONT	Yesterday I received an e-mail from a source. In this e-mail were four social security numbers linked to the gentlemen who presented counterfeit California driver's licenses to my company late last night.

CLAREMONT	<i>Well... I think that these are the gentlemen who robbed us. I'm also a bail bondsman out of Los Angeles. I can track down and deliver these crooks to you... for a small finder's fee of course.</i>
BISHOP	How much?
CLAREMONT	<i>$300,000.</i>

BISHOP	And if you can't deliver them?
CLAREMONT	<i>My theft insurance policy will have to fork over the ten million... but that will take six to eight months due to Nevada state law.</i>  <i>But you should know sir... that I employ bounty hunters. My bounty hunters can find these thieves.</i>

BISHOP	This is Bishop.
CLAREMONT	<i>The Bounty Hunters have arrived. They will drop off the money in exactly one hour.</i>  <i>Where do you want to meet?</i>
BISHOP	Top of the World at the Stratosphere. It's completely secure. <b> INT. FBI JET -- NEXT </b> Cosgrove and Espinoza listen to this conversation.

CHOCO	<i>Holy shit... this bitch is fierce.</i>
DOMINO	I've been training since I was twelve. Knives. Guns. Throwing stars. You name it... I can fight with it. I'm a hard worker and a fast learner.  Nothing scares me. I'm not afraid to die.

DOMINO	Morning.
CHOCO	<i>Morning.</i>

CHOCO	<i>They can do subtitles.</i>
DOMINO	<i>Choco grew up on the streets of El Salvador. When he was four years old... he stabbed another kid in the eye-ball with a pencil.</i>  <i>There were wires crossed somewhere in his soul.</i>

DOMINO	Who the hell is that?
CHOCO	<i>That's the crew. They follow us.</i>

DOMINO	What is it, Choco?
CHOCO	<i>Are you all right?</i>

CHOCO	I LOVE YOU, DOMINO.
DOMINO	<i>I once vowed never to invest too much emotion into anyone, anything.</i>

ED	Alright. Time to ditch this thing. Did you take a look at the bathroom window?
CHOCO	<i>I forgot.</i>
ED	For the love of God. Not Spanish again. Who's the girl?

CHOCO	Where are we going?
ED	On a raid. If she wants to see justice... we gonna take Domino to the Jungle, baby. <b> EXT. JUNGLE -- NEXT </b> The El Camino pulls into the entrance to the JUNGLE. The neighborhood of LOW INCOME HOUSES winds upward into the HILLSIDE adjacent to the wall. Ed parks the El Camino next to the curb. <b> INT. EL CAMINO -- NEXT

ED	Bail jumper's name is Cookie Kincaid. Nineteen years old. His mommie posted bail when he was arrested for allegedly partaking in a drive-by shooting in Hawthorne.
CHOCO	<i>He killed two children.</i>
ED	Fella takes out two kids and has the audacity to not show up for trial.
CHOCO	<i>We gotta bring him in.</i>
ED	Will you speak the fucking English language? The poor girl has no clue what you're talking about.  The boy speaks English, you know. Reads, writes, I swear it. He does this when he's around girls. Thinks it's cute.
CHOCO	<i>I'm gonna kill you, Ed.</i>

ED	Tell him it's not cute. Will you tell him, Domino!?
CHOCO	<i>Chinga te y tu mama tambien.</i>

ED	Jesus Christ! What's that smell?
CHOCO	<i>The children like to urinate in the balls.</i>
ED	Fuckin' A! We got a five hour drive back to LA ahead of us. <b> EXT. MACDONALD'S -- PARKING LOT -- MOMENTS LATER </b> Choco is now stripped down to his boxer shorts in the back PARKING LOT of the MacDonald's. Alf is hosing him down. Domino stares at Choco... admiring his body.

ED	Fella could get used to a life this ordinary.
CHOCO	Maybe you should fuck her mom then.

ED	So what?
CHOCO	You know what I'm talking about, did you fuck her?

ED	I just charged $12.95 to our room for that movie. Now I'll never know how the story ends.
CHOCO	Don't fuck with me, Ed. Not you, not tonight.

ED	Oh! And another thing. I am a liar. A pathological liar. There was no day in Danang, no multiple tours in Nam. Just lies to get laid, lies to get respect.  Truth is... I'm scared shitless all the time.
CHOCO	What about your toe?
ED	Anything to get the fuck out of dodge.
CHOCO	Did it hurt?
ED	What do you think, dumbshit?

ED	Promise me... you won't ever tell Domino.
CHOCO	What?
ED	<i>Promise me... you won't tell her... that I never fucked Pat Benatar.</i>

CIGLIUTI	Hello?
KEG PRESIDENT	<i>Mr. Cigliuti?</i>
CIGLIUTI	Yes.
KEG PRESIDENT	<i>I'm calling from the Kappa Epsilon Gamma house at California University.</i>
CIGLIUTI	Yes. <b> INT. KEG HOUSE -- CHAPTER ROOM -- NEXT </b>

KEG PRESIDENT	I'm so sorry to be bothering you in the middle of the night like this... but it's a bit of an emergency.
CIGLIUTI	<i>What is it?</i>
KEG PRESIDENT	Your son... and your nephew have been kidnapped by these crazy game show hosts from the Fox network. <b> INT. CIGLIUTI COMPOUND -- MASTER BEDROOM -- NEXT </b> Cigliuti sits up in bed.
CIGLIUTI	My Frances? Frances and Charles have been kidnapped? <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT -- NEXT </b>

DOMINO	Why the hell are we delivering them out here? I can't even find any warrants in the system for these four.
CLAREMONT	<i>The system hasn't been updated.</i>

CLAREMONT	<i>The FBI was breathing down Lateesha's neck... and she assumed that they were onto our scam. So she set up some college kids to take the fall for the heist. They have been under FBI surveillance for the past 6 months.</i> <b> INT. CHEVY SUBURBAN </b> Claremont drives like a maniac.
DOMINO	<i>What happened to them?</i>
CLAREMONT	I don't know. They might be dead already.

DOMINO	You're breaking up... I can't hear you.
CLAREMONT	<i>Remove... ... the... right arm.</i>
DOMINO	What!!?

DOMINO	Okay.
CLAREMONT	<i>I won't forget this, Domino. I'm sorry it turned out like this...</i>

CLAREMONT	She's right... you lost your temper... and you started cursing like some ghetto skank. You lost all credibility right there!
LATEESHA	That bitch called me a bitch.

CLAREMONT	I've already formulated a plan.
LATEESHA	What?
CLAREMONT	My armored car business. We just signed a new insurance policy in Nevada. There's a loophole.
LATEESHA	There's always a loophole with you, Claremont. Your black ass is one big loophole. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN -- [FLASH FORWARD] NIGHT

LATEESHA	Where are you? <b> INT. CHEVY SUBURBAN -- NEXT </b> Claremont is behind the Wheel of a BLACK CHEVY SUBURBAN. He pulls into the Texaco parking lot.
CLAREMONT	I'm pulling up right now. Evacuate the fucking van! Plans have changed! <b> EXT. TEXACO STATION -- NEXT

CLAREMONT	You motherfuckin' Tino. You fucked us so bad.
LATEESHA	I fucked up. You can't help your greedy black lying ass from trying to get everything. All you've done is put a death sentence on Meeka.

ED	Claremont, you're a chubby chaser.
CLAREMONT	You white folks don't understand the natural beauty of a woman's figure. Those are birthing hips. More cushion for the pushin'.

CLAREMONT	<i>Did you get all four?</i>
ED	Yep.
CLAREMONT	<i>Deliver them to the Needles DMV. Sundown at the Sam Kinison monument.</i>

ED	We need hostages. Celebrity hostages. Just in case this gets ugly. <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT -- LATER ON </b> The Cast Winnebago drives through the desert.
CLAREMONT	<i>The combination code is tattooed on his right arm. You'll never get inside Edna Fender's safe without the code-breaker on that arm.</i> <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO -- NEXT </b> Domino rides shotgun with her CELL PHONE to her ear.

ED	Hello?
CLAREMONT	<i>The money exchange will take place at Top of the World at the Stratosphere. Get there at exactly midnight.</i>

TARYN	Ms. Harvey... my name is Taryn Miles. I'm a criminal psychologist working for the FBI. I'm here to ask you a few questions.
DOMINO	<i>Here's the part where I'm supposed to get all defensive and say... 'not until I speak with my attorney.'</i>

TARYN	<i>The driver's name was Locus Fender. We know that he was in on the heist.</i> <b> INT. ARMORED CAR -- NEXT </b> LOCUS FENDER  is behind the wheel of the armored car. His unshaven, disheveled appearance looks totally out of place in his security uniform. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN -- NIGHT </b> Taryn is now scrawling notes on a pad.
TARYN	Where is the money?
DOMINO	I don't know.
TARYN	I think that you're lying. I think you know exactly where the money is.
DOMINO	You're trying to scare me into falsely incriminating myself... and it's not working. I said I'd tell you everything I know. You and your friends behind the mirror.

TARYN	Is it true that you were hired to track down and capture the thieves... and then deliver them to Drake Bishop... owner of the Stratosphere Hotel & Casino?
DOMINO	Yes.
TARYN	You then learned where the thieves had hidden the money... and at the instructions of your employer went to retrieve it yourself.
DOMINO	He sent us out to the Fender Compound. Out in the desert near the Chicken Ranch.

DOMINO	He's a reality television producer. His name is Mark Weiss.
TARYN	Mr. Weiss was very generous in turning over some video tapes to the FBI. There's lots of footage of you. We know everything.  If you don't come clean... the information on these tapes could send you to prison for a very long time.

TARYN	Are you aware that Lateesha Rodriguez has been running a counterfeit driver's license racket?
DOMINO	That's the rumor on the street.
TARYN	What was your business with Lateesha that day?
DOMINO	We needed to verify some bond certificates for Claremont. She pushes stuff through the system for us... helps us track down perps for a kick back. It's all legal. <b> INT. MUSTANG CONVERTIBLE -- [FLASHBACK] DAY </b>

TARYN	<i>You drove Lateesha's daughter to school... then dropped her off at the DMV. Why?</i>
DOMINO	<i>Her car was in the shop.</i>

DOMINO	<i>The bitch was bluffing. There were no dupe tapes. If there were... they'd have shown them to me by now.</i>
DOMINO	Show me the tapes. I want to see them.
TARYN	Not yet. <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO -- NEXT </b> Alf pulls onto the 15 FREEWAY.
DOMINO	Take us to Vegas.

DOMINO	<i>Now the bitch was getting personal.</i>
TARYN	That's the only way you can cope with the route your life has taken. The fact that you made the choice to pursue this life- style... much to the chagrin of your mother... who is so clearly ashamed of you.  Imagine her shame when we cart you off to prison because you won't just tell the truth about what really happened. <b> EXT. NEVADA DESERT -- DAY FOR NIGHT [MESCALINE TRIP]

DOMINO	Take us to Vegas. <b> EXT. DESERT ROAD -- DAY </b> The crew rides in the back of the Wanderer's truck toward Vegas. <b> INT. VEGAS SECURITY LOCKDOWN -- NIGHT </b> Domino stares at Taryn as she returns to the table.
TARYN	This is your last chance. Tell us everything you know.

DOMINO	Do you want know the real reason why I became a bounty hunter?
TARYN	No. Please enlighten me.
DOMINO	I became a bounty hunter because of cunts like you.  I remember all the cunts in high school who were mean to me. Eventually... they all grew up to be just like you. Angry and bitter because they peaked early... and now they're stuck in some dead end marriage... or worse yet... an unfulfilling job that keeps them from meeting a man.

DOMINO	<i>That's my best friend. His name is Choco. He's always fancied me... but too shy to ever do anything about it.</i>
EDNA	Chi-Chi!  CHI-CHI!
DOMINO	Chi-Chi has gone to doggie heaven, bitch!

EDNA	Is that you, Domino?
DOMINO	Nice to see you again, Edna.

DOMINO	HE'S STILL ALIVE, EDNA!
EDNA	PROVE IT!

EDNA	LOCUS! BABY... I'M HERE!
DOMINO	Turn over your weapon, Edna!

DOMINO	Is that the decoder?
EDNA	Yeah. <b> INT. FENDER HOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER </b>

DOMINO	<i>Either this was some kind of set up... or the First Ladies got scared... decided to pull out and cut their losses.</i>
EDNA	Fuck 'em. Their loss is our gain. Put the money in the safe until we hear from Claremont. <b>

EDNA	Cock-fuckers are gonna pay.
DOMINO	<i>Mescaline.</i> <b> INT. CAST WINNEBAGO -- NIGHT </b> Domino and the others are all drinking coffee. Alf stares out through the windshield at the GLOW of Vegas in the distance.

DOMINO	<i>After dad passed on, Mum's agenda was to hit the town and find another husband with a boatload of cash.</i> <b> INT. LONDON APARTMENT -- EVENING </b> Sophie is dolled up for a night on the town... CLEAVAGE spilling out of her cocktail dress. Domino is feeding her pet GOLDFISH. "THUNDERBIRDS" plays on the television.
SOPHIE	Be kind to your sitter.

DOMINO	Everything. It is a ghastly existence.
SOPHIE	Why must you fight... everything that is normal? You are blessed with such beauty. Life could be so easy... if only you allowed yourself to fit the mold.
DOMINO	The mold? I am living among these crypto-fascist Orange County cunts... with daddy's BMW and the boob job... just waiting to implode.
SOPHIE	Crypto-fascist? Who talks like this?!
DOMINO	I refuse to turn out like them. Twenty-one years old and they're already looking for a husband.  Stupid fucking cunts with no self- esteem. They let the boys control their lives. Not me.
SOPHIE	Must you use that awful word?
DOMINO	Cunt.
SOPHIE	Stop it.
DOMINO	Cunt.
SOPHIE	I said stop it.
DOMINO	Cunt. It's just a word. Why does everyone in this fucking country get their knickers in a twist by the slightest bit of indecent conversation?

SOPHIE	So who is this <i>Choko?</i> Is he your new boyfriend?
DOMINO	It's Choco. And he's not my boyfriend. He's a bounty hunter.
SOPHIE	<i>Whatever.</i> He's a criminal. And this Ed Martin character is a complete loser.
DOMINO	He used to date Pat Benatar!

SOPHIE	God help us. God help us all.
DOMINO	<i>It was the beginning of the end.</i>

ED	Don't fuck with us, Edna! There are at least three more limbs where that one came from!
DOMINO	I can certainly think of one more!

DOMINO	<i>My real father was an actor. He died when I was a little girl.</i>
ED	Wow. Laurence Harvey. He knew Frank Sinatra?  I knew Frank.

ED	What the... <i>who is this bitch?</i> <b> EXT. HAWTHORNE COMMUNITY CENTER -- PARKING LOT -- NEXT </b> Ed and Choco exit the El Camino just as Domino retrieves her knife from the windshield. She grips it in her right hand... threatening them.
DOMINO	Where the fuck do you think you're going?

ED	You want to be a bounty hunter. Why does a pretty little thing like you want to be a bounty hunter?
DOMINO	Because I want justice. I want to help put these sleazebags back in jail where they belong.  And I want to have a little fun.

DOMINO	You can save that Pretty Woman shit. The name is Domino.
ED	Domino. Do you have a last name... Domino?
DOMINO	No last names. Just Domino. The less you know about me the better, okay?

DOMINO	So Ed. What did you do before you became a bounty hunter?
ED	I was a musician.

DOMINO	Really? Did you play in a band?
ED	Yeah. I played base guitar for Pat Benatar.

DOMINO	I... <i>love...</i> Pat Benatar.
ED	Yeah?! Well... I loved her too.
DOMINO	Oh my God... you mean... the two of you dated?!
ED	We dated off and on for two years. But life on the road is tough. The pressure of the tour... relationships within a band... sometimes it leads to jealousy.

DOMINO	How did you meet Choco?
ED	I found him pan-handling on Third Street Promenade. Took him under my wing. We been hunting together ever since.

ED	What the fuck is your problem? Bitch!! <b> INT. SOPHIE TROMAS MANSION -- KITCHEN -- DAY </b> Domino is loading her GUN at the kitchen table as Sophie serves breakfast. Domino wolfs it down.
DOMINO	<i>Mum was terrified for me. She didn't approve of my lifestyle one bit.</i>

DOMINO	<i>I was asleep in mum's guest house.</i> <b> INT. SOPHIE THOMAS MANSION -- BEDROOM -- NEXT </b> Domino is asleep in bed. The TELEPHONE rings.
DOMINO	Hello?
ED	<i>We gotta go to work, Domino.</i>

ED	Can you tell?
DOMINO	You're wearing eyeliner. You look like a queen.

ED	Cool it, Choco.
DOMINO	YOU'RE UNDER ARREST.

ED	Everyone... please give Domino her space. Step back, please!
DOMINO	You have sixty seconds... here's the question...  Which one of you is Frances?

DOMINO	Where are the bond certificates for the First Ladies?
ED	There are no bond certificates.
DOMINO	What do you mean? Claremont didn't provide them?
ED	No. What's the big deal?
DOMINO	Something is going down. Something bad.
ED	Claremont said we deliver the First Ladies in Needles. Then we go home. No questions asked.

ED	What did he say about the arm?
DOMINO	He said... take his right arm.

ED	Make us a pot of coffee, Edna.  It's gonna be a long night. <b> EXT. FENDER COMPOUND -- MOMENTS LATER </b> Edna stands next to her MAIMED SON near the burning barrels as they watch the Winnebago drive off into the desert. Locus is sobbing... latching onto his mother's sweater.
DOMINO	<i>Turned out Edna. had one last trick up her sleeve.</i> <b> INT. FENDER COMPOUND -- KITCHEN -- [FLASHBACK] TEN MINUTES AGO

ED	We are so fucked.
DOMINO	Then so be it. If you believe what that Indian said we were fucked either way.

ZIERING	Uhhh... I have no idea what you just said.
ED	SPEAK ENGLISH! JESUS CHRIST WE'RE ON TELEVISION HERE!

ZIERING	Three tours? Isn't that... <i>twelve years?</i>
ED	Son, with the exception of Spring Break in Tijuana, have you ever ventured outside of California?
ZIERING	Many times.
ED	Do you know where Danang is?
ZIERING	Not really.
ED	...THEN SHUT THE FUCK UP!

ZIERING	We're late.
GREEN	Fucking Map Quest. <i>Never again.</i> <b> EXT. DOWNTOWN GARAGE ROOFTOP -- NEXT </b> Ziering and Green approach a LARGE TENT. The WINNEBAGO is parked off to the side. Alf is inside... doing something with a WELDER on the front of the RV.

ZIERING	They need to get the introduction on camera. Just play along, alright?
GREEN	They're gonna edit it together out of sequence so it's more exciting. <b> EXT. BEVERLY HILLS -- LATER ON

ZIERING	Listen, dick-fuck. I had a good run while it lasted. Now I've got ten million in the bank. <i>I'll never have to work again for the rest of my life.</i>
GREEN	And he used to fuck a Playboy centerfold every night.
ZIERING	Twice a night, sometimes.

ZIERING	We didn't sign on for this shit.  Fuck! This shit is intense. I need to call my agent.
GREEN	Just shut up and do what they say. They're gonna kill us if we don't, Ian.

WEISS	Get Cynthia on the line. <i>They changed the fucking font.</i>
KIMMIE	Okay.  Domino Harvey is here.
WEISS	Send her through to the conference room. <b> INT. FOX TELEVISION STUDIOS -- LOBBY -- NEXT

KIMMIE	This could break new ground in terms of traditional host models. It's self-reflexive reality television.
WEISS	Your theory is valid... <i>in theory.</i>
KIMMIE	We can't lose focus of Domino's journey, Mark.

WEISS	We're covered on legal with that, right?
KIMMIE	In theory.

KIMMIE	Fast and or furious.
WEISS	But real. This is gritty. Like Cassavetes.
KIMMIE	Exactly. Why don't you leave the guns behind this time? Go in with only batons, brass knuckles, and numb-chucks.

KIMMIE	This girl is going to be a star. She just tells it like it is.
WEISS	We should sign her to a talent holding deal. <b> INT. KEG HOUSE -- FRANCES' ROOM -- NEXT

KIMMIE	Where is Domino?
WEISS	She went up to her room.

LASHANDRA	You were good.
LASHINDRA	Real good.

LASHANDRA	Ain't nobody gonna call me a bitch without some payback.
LASHINDRA	Nobody.

LASHANDRA	<i>Gotta strip/ Gotta give some lip/ Gotta make my tip/ But keep yo hands to yourself - Cuz you ain't touching these tits.</i>
LASHINDRA	<i>House is a wreck/ Gotta collect my check/ Gotta perfume my neck/ But keep yo hands off the weave cuz this black bitch don't suck the dick.</i>

LASHANDRA	Just like Billy Ocean says. <i>When the going gets tough...</i>
LASHINDRA	<i>The tough get going.</i>

LASHANDRA	Meeka's white blood cell count is dropping fast.
LASHINDRA	Real fast.

ALBERT	Hello, Jack,  I don't know anything, Jack.
CARTER	Yes, you do, Albert. Talk or I'll kill you.
ALBERT	I know. I know.

CARTER	You can't get away from me, Albert.
ALBERT	I know.

ALBERT	I didn't know who Doreen was. Thought she was just another bird.
CARTER	Did Eric Pake pull her?
ALBERT	Yes.
CARTER	How?
ALBERT	I dunno. He's got his ways. He knows Margaret.
CARTER	When did you find out?
ALBERT	A couple of weeks back.
CARTER	How?
ALBERT	No choice. I had a visit from somebody.
CARTER	Who?
ALBERT	Cliff Brumby. He'd seen the film. He wanted to meet Doreen.
CARTER	And you told Brumby?

CARTER	Do you want to be dead, Albert?
ALBERT	Last Sunday afternoon, Eric and two of his boys arrive with Frank and tell me that he's rumbled. Somehow, he's seen the film and was about to shoot his mouth off. They ask me for some whisky and start forcing it down his throat.  I thought they'd just duff him up a bit. Honest.
CARTER	What did you do?  Albert?
ALBERT	Nothing. What could I do?
CARTER	Did Eric know that Frank was my brother?
ALBERT	Yes. I told him.
CARTER	What did he say?
ALBERT	'Good.'

CARTER	You knew what I'd do.
ALBERT	Yes, but listen. Christ, I didn't kill him.

BILLY	What do you want?
CARTER	What happened to this car?
BILLY	What's it got to do with you?
CARTER	This is my brother's car.
BILLY	Oh ay?
CARTER	Yeah.
BILLY	Well, he drove it into the river.
CARTER	Was the steering faulty?

CARTER	What about the brakes?
BILLY	Fine. Nowt wrong with them.
CARTER	How'd it happen, then?
BILLY	He was drunk. Drunk as a lord.
CARTER	Was he?

BRUMBY	You know what the bloody time is!  It's two o'clock in the bloody morning!
CARTER	I know.
BRUMBY	Well?

CARTER	I made a mistake.
BRUMBY	What?
CARTER	I made a mistake.
BRUMBY	What about?
CARTER	Never mind.

BRUMBY	Bloody well tell me who sent you.
CARTER	You're a big man, but you're in bad shape. With me, it's a full- time job. Now behave yourself.

BRUMBY	A new venture of mine. It's going to be a restaurant.  Do you like it?
CARTER	Yes.
BRUMBY	Last night, after you'd gone, I did a little bit of asking around. Seeing as you weren't very forthcoming,  It seems that you are concerned about the death of your brother?  I got to thinking it would be nice if the bloke you were after was the same bloke I wanted off my back,  You know my life. Machines. The arcades. Nice business. Looks after itself. People put money in. I take it out. Not much rough stuff. It's a business that makes me very happy. But recently, I've had a spot of bother,  One of my lads gets a bit over- anxious and flogs some machines in a club that's already got some. The upshot is I've had to eat shit and stop flogging my machines to other clubs.  So far as I'm concerned, that's it. Apparently not. These people I've offended get the idea that it would be good to take over my whole outfit,  So I'm worried. I can't fight them  I haven't that kind of set-up. But I've got to fix them before they fix me. Trouble is, if I try and they find out, I'm dead.

BRUMBY	Five grand. It belongs to you. Along with a little name I'm going to give you.
CARTER	What name?
BRUMBY	Kinnear. Cyril Kinnear.  Kinnear did it.
CARTER	Why?
BRUMBY	I don't know. All I know is that people were shitting bricks up at his place last Saturday. Your brother's name was mentioned. Next day, he was dead.
CARTER	Why?
BRUMBY	I don't know. That's all I was told.

CARTER	That's not good enough.
BRUMBY	Christ, what...
CARTER	Do me a favour. You don't really expect me to fix Kinnear on your say-so?  Just because they tried to get me on you last night, don't think you can pull the same trick. Stroll on.
BRUMBY	Jack, you're wrong.
CARTER	Good afternoon, Mr Brumby. Carter exits.
BRUMBY	Jack...

CARTER	You shouldn't have shown the film to Frank.
BRUMBY	I had to. It was the only way I could get at them.

THORPE	Jack?
CARTER	Good evening.
THORPE	I'd like a word with you, Jack.
CARTER	That's nice.
THORPE	Confidential, like.
CARTER	You stay in the car. I'll come and listen.  What you want to tell me, Thorpey?

THORPE	Train goes at four minutes past twelve. You've just got time.
CARTER	That's very kind of somebody. Who do I have to thank?  What happens if I miss the train?
THORPE	I've been asked to make sure you don't.
CARTER	Oh, really. You're getting very optimistic in your old age, aren't you, Thorpey?

CARTER	Who paid you to see me off?
THORPE	I can't Jack. How can I?
CARTER	Yes you can.

THORPE	No, don't Jack, don't.
CARTER	Who sent you, Thorpey?
THORPE	Brumby!

CARTER	Where's he living these days?
THORPE	He's got a new place at Burnham.
CARTER	Address?
THORPE	On the Durham Road. The Pantiles.

THORPE	Can I go now?
CARTER	You must be joking,  Keep him away from the telephone. I'm going out for a bit.

MARGARET	Everyhing go off all right?
CARTER	Fine...  I want to talk to you.
MARGARET	What about?
CARTER	Doreen.

MARGARET	She's nothing to do with me.
CARTER	What do you mean? You've been Frank's bird ever since her mother cleared off. You're closer to her than anyone.
MARGARET	No. No. It's not like that. I've got a husband, you know.

CARTER	Hold it!   Hold it!  Who killed Frank, Margaret?
MARGARET	Killed?  I don't know anything about it.

CARTER	Really.
MARGARET	I must go. I'm in a hurry.
CARTER	I want to talk to you later.
MARGARET	I can't.
CARTER	Tomorrow morning, then?

CARTER	How were things between you and Frank?
MARGARET	He was all right to me.
CARTER	Nothing more? Just another feller?
MARGARET	Nicer than most.
CARTER	But he was just another feller, wasn't he?
MARGARET	Yes.
CARTER	Though nicer than most?
MARGARET	Yes. I can't help the way I am.
CARTER	Why'd you see him so regular?
MARGARET	Once a week?
CARTER	I call that regular.
MARGARET	He was gentlemanly. I like that.
CARTER	Once a week you like a gentleman?
MARGARET	Look, I'm me, right. You're not. We are what we are, like it or not.  Why all the bloody needle?
CARTER	What was bugging Frank?
MARGARET	He wanted me to leave Dave and marry him. Last Friday I told him it wouldn't work. Dave would have killed us both!  He followed me home and kicked up a stink in the street,  I had to tell Frank I couldn't see him any more. It was getting too dodgy. That was on Sunday.  He said he'd kill himself. I was frightened what you might do.

CARTER	I don't believe you, Margaret. Frank wasn't like that.  I'm the villain in the family, remember?
MARGARET	It's the truth.

MARGARET	It is. Honestly.
CARTER	You bloody whore. Frank was too careful to die like that. Who killed him?
MARGARET	I don't know nothing.

GLENDA	You know Sid Fletcher?
CARTER	What?
GLENDA	You know Sid Fletcher?
CARTER	I work for him.
GLENDA	Do you?
CARTER	Yes, I do.

GLENDA	I know him too.
CARTER	Who?
GLENDA	Sid Fletcher.
CARTER	Oh, do you?
GLENDA	Yes.
CARTER	No, do you really?

GLENDA	Yes. I met him last year.
CARTER	Go on.
GLENDA	Oh yes. When he came up on business.
CARTER	Really?
GLENDA	He came to see Mr Kinnear.
CARTER	No.

GLENDA	We went about together.
CARTER	Really?
GLENDA	Yes, while he was here.
CARTER	While he was here. You went about together?
GLENDA	He was here for four days.
CARTER	Was he?
GLENDA	Could you do me a favour?
CARTER	Yeah, I'll do you a favour.
GLENDA	Could you please put my glass on the table?

GLENDA	You didn't know you had a fairy godmother, did you?
CARTER	No. I didn't know that.
GLENDA	A fairy godmother, all of your own. Aren't you lucky?
CARTER	So where are we going, Princess?
GLENDA	To the demon king's castle, of course.
CARTER	Of course. Where else?

CARTER	How'd you know where I'd be?
GLENDA	You were seen parking your car. The demon king waves his wand and I was dispatched to bring you to him. Lucky for you I waited.
CARTER	Very lucky, I should think. You're drunk!
GLENDA	Nasty.
CARTER	He must have been pretty sure I'd come.
GLENDA	Oh, he was. He told me a magic spell that would make you come.
CARTER	And what was that?
GLENDA	We're there now.

CARTER	Who's setting you up in this place?
GLENDA	Brumby.
CARTER	Is he coming here?
GLENDA	Don't worry. He's meeting the architects at the restaurant.

CARTER	Aren't you scared Kinnear will find out?
GLENDA	He won't. He thinks I'm simple.

CARTER	What does he want that bloody great country place for?
GLENDA	Entertaining.
CARTER	What kind of entertaining?
GLENDA	Now you're asking.

CARTER	Does Brumby get a kick out of that crap?
GLENDA	Especially when I play the lead.

GLENDA	That's why you waited for me.
CARTER	Not entirely. No.
GLENDA	You sure about that?
CARTER	Sure I'm sure.

CARTER	I want to give you an Oscar.
GLENDA	You've been watching the film.
CARTER	Tell me about the girl.
GLENDA	What girl?
CARTER	The young girl. Who pulled her?
GLENDA	I don't know.
CARTER	Was it Albert?
GLENDA	Shouldn't think so.
CARTER	Is it one of Kinnear's films?
GLENDA	Yeah.
CARTER	Who set it up?  Eric?
GLENDA	Yeah.
CARTER	Then he must have pulled her.
GLENDA	Expect so.
CARTER	Did my brother Frank find out?
GLENDA	Your brother? What you talking about?

CARTER	Now tell me the truth.
GLENDA	The girl's name was Doreen. That's all I know.
CARTER	And you didn't know her last name?
GLENDA	No.
CARTER	Well, it's Carter. That's my name,  And her father was my brother. And he was murdered last Sunday. Now get up and get dressed.

EDDIE	We weren't sure where it was taking place, like.
CARTER	Nice of you to come.
EDDIE	No. Frank was a good bloke.

EDDIE	It's a bloody funny thing. You know a bloke for six bloody years and all the time he's as calm as gentle Jesus...  ...then he goes and does a thing like that.  It's a bloody funny thing.
CARTER	Yeah. A bloody funny thing!

CARTER	Let her go. She'll be OK.  Sorry about that.
EDDIE	Don't worry. She's bound to be upset.
CARTER	Have another?
EDDIE	No. I'll be off now. I should be at work.

CARTER	Look, look.  Get your suit cleaned.
EDDIE	No. It's all right.
CARTER	Thanks for coming.
EDDIE	Frank was a good bloke. It's the least I could have done.

CARTER	Sorry about your father.
DOREEN	Yeah.
CARTER	Tell me, Doreen, did the police say anything?
DOREEN	They said he was drunk.

CARTER	How's school?
DOREEN	I left last year.
CARTER	Oh, what you doing now?
DOREEN	Working at Woolworths.
CARTER	That must be interesting.
DOREEN	Yes.

CARTER	You all right now?
DOREEN	Yeah.
CARTER	You coming to South America?
DOREEN	No.

CARTER	Where you going to live, then?
DOREEN	At me friend's house.
CARTER	Where's that?
DOREEN	Wilton Estate.
CARTER	Nice family, are they? Church-goers and all that?

CARTER	Good. I'm off tomorrow, so I don't suppose I'll see you again.  There. Go and get your hair done.
DOREEN	Thanks.

KEITH	I couldn't believe it when I heard. Carter is suddenly attentive.
CARTER	What?
KEITH	I mean, I was surprised when he didn't turn up for work.  He was always on time.
CARTER	Did you work with him, Keith?
KEITH	At the Half Moon.

KEITH	I mean, what for?
CARTER	That's what I was wondering.
KEITH	Come off it. Frank was... well... straight. He had no worries I know. Hell, we worked together every day for a year. It would have showed.
CARTER	Why would it?
KEITH	It just would. He was always the same.
CARTER	Since when did he drink whisky?
KEITH	Don't know.
CARTER	Nobody seems to know.

CARTER	You work here, Keith?
KEITH	Yes.

CARTER	Keith, if anybody comes in here and asks for me, you let me know. Right?
KEITH	Right.
CARTER	I'm at the Las Vegas. Behind the dance hall.  Do you know a man called Albert Swift?
KEITH	Yeah. He comes in here a bit.
CARTER	Where would I find him?
KEITH	Today? At the races. He always goes.

KEITH	How'd you know Albert?
CARTER	Went to school with him.  He was leader of our gang. He'll know what's going on in this town.

KEITH	What you having, Jack?
CARTER	Large Scotch.

KEITH	Heard of a man called Thorpe?
CARTER	Old Thorpey? Haven't seen him in a long time.
KEITH	That's what he was saying about you.

KEITH	Said he'd heard you were up in town. Wondered if I knew where you was staying. Wanted to look you up. Old time's sake.
CARTER	That's nice. What'd you tell him?
KEITH	Nowt.
CARTER	Good lad.

CARTER	See you later.
KEITH	Where you off to?
CARTER	Las Vegas.

KEITH	Thorpey. They were waiting for us in the car park.
CARTER	How many?
KEITH	Four of them.

CARTER	Ah, Edna, come in. Join the tea set.
KEITH	Who's Brumby?
CARTER	Cliff Brumby. Ever been to Westsea?

CARTER	Ever been into an arcade there and put a penny in the slot machine?
KEITH	Yeah.
CARTER	Ten to one, it belonged to Cliff Brumby, and like as not the bloody arcade as well. Right along the coast. Isn't that right, Thorpey?

CARTER	What happened to you, then?
KEITH	How'd you find me?

CARTER	Did they give you a rough time?
KEITH	No.  You bastard. You knew they'd come back.
CARTER	No, I didn't,  Does Albert Swift still live over the ferry?
KEITH	Get knotted.
CARTER	All right. All right. I want to square things with you first.
KEITH	Oh yes? How?

KEITH	Stuff it! My girl friend's coming from Liverpool tonight.  Nice surprise, isn't it?
CARTER	I'm sorry. Here. This'll pay for a course in karate.

CARTER	I won't be using the room tonight.
EDNA	I see.
CARTER	I'm staying with a friend.
EDNA	Her husband docks tomorrow, does he?
CARTER	It's not like that, luv.
EDNA	It never is.

EDNA	Are you a traveller?
CARTER	Definitely.
EDNA	Will this do?
CARTER	Very nice.  I'll pay you for tonight as well.
EDNA	Don't be bloody silly. You're the first since Monday.
CARTER	You sure?

EDNA	Ta.
CARTER	I'll bet this one's seen some action.

EDNA	What is it?
CARTER	My brother, Frank.
EDNA	Is he staying the night?
CARTER	Funny.  Can I phone London?
EDNA	It'll cost you.

EDNA	What the bloody hell do you think you're at?
CARTER	I'm sorry.
EDNA	You don't look it.
CARTER	No. Really, I am.
EDNA	Don't come that bloody flannel with me. If you're a traveller, I'm bloody Twiggy.  And who's he?

EDNA	Inside? Why should I give house- room to your sort?
CARTER	Up the stairs, Keith. The door on the right.

EDNA	And what you going to do?
CARTER	Make us a nice cup of tea and I'll tell you. I might even let you watch.
EDNA	I'll call the police.
CARTER	No, you won't.

EDNA	Suppose you tell me what the bloody hell's going on. It's my house, you know.
CARTER	Yes, Edna, and I must say you've been great about the ...
EDNA	Stick the soft soap. Let's be having it.

EDNA	Now just a minute...
CARTER	Ta-ra.

EDNA	You sod.
CARTER	They came back?
EDNA	No.

EDNA	What'll they do to him?
CARTER	Don't ask me.

EDNA	They bloody hurt me.
CARTER	You're lucky. They kill as well.
EDNA	And what about you? Did you kill Brumby?

EDNA	Thorpey nearly died laughing.
CARTER	That little shit!
EDNA	What about Keith?
CARTER	What about Keith?
EDNA	What you going to do?
CARTER	Pension him off.
EDNA	You're a bastard.
CARTER	What am I supposed to do?  I don't know where they've taken him. Do you?

CARTER	So shut up.
EDNA	What's that gun doing in your room? Suppose I phoned the police and told them there's a bloke staying in my hotel who's planning to shoot somebody?
CARTER	You wouldn't.
EDNA	How'd you know I wouldn't?
CARTER	'Cos I know you wear purple underwear.
EDNA	What's that supposed to mean?
CARTER	Think about it.

EDNA	Are you awake?
CARTER	No.
EDNA	Do you want breakfast?
CARTER	You must be joking. I never eat breakfast,  Did you sleep well?
EDNA	Uh-huh.

EDNA	Did you sleep well?
CARTER	Yes, thank you.

CARTER	Are you tired?
EDNA	No. Are you tired?
CARTER	No. I'm not tired,  Do you eat breakfast?

CARTER	Do us a favour?
EDNA	What, and get myself beaten up again?
CARTER	No chance of that.
EDNA	Not much.
CARTER	They're friends of mine.
EDNA	And that'll make me feel better?
CARTER	I don't want to get rough, do I?

EDNA	What you going to do?
CARTER	I'm going to sit in the car and whistle 'Rule, Britannia'.

EDNA	You coming back?
CARTER	How could I stay away?

CARTER	Is he?
ERIC	Jack Carter.
CARTER	Eric. Eric Paice.
ERIC	What you doing around here then?
CARTER	Didn't you know this is my home town?
ERIC	No, I didn't know that.
CARTER	Funny, that.

ERIC	Thanks. So what're you doing? On your holidays?
CARTER	No. I'm visiting relatives.
ERIC	Oh, that's nice.
CARTER	It would be. If they were still living.
ERIC	Meaning what?
CARTER	A bereavement. A death in the family.
ERIC	Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
CARTER	That's all right, Eric.

ERIC	Well, well. Small world, isn't it?
CARTER	Very...  So, who you working for these days Eric?
ERIC	Oh, I'm straight.  Respectable.
CARTER	What are you doing? Advertising Martini?
ERIC	Oh, you've been watching television.
CARTER	Yeah,  Come off it, Eric. Who is it?

ERIC	What's it to you anyway?
CARTER	I've always ad your welfare at heart, Eric. Besides which, I'm nosy.
ERIC	That's not always a healthy way to be...
CARTER	And you should know, if I remember rightly.

CARTER	So you're doing all right then, Eric. You're making good.
ERIC	Making a living.
CARTER	Good prospects for advancement, is there? A pension?  Do you know, I'd almost forgotten what your eyes looked like.

CARTER	They're still the same. Piss holes in the snow.
ERIC	Still got a sense of humour?
CARTER	Yes, I retained that, Eric.  Do you know a man called Albert Swift, Eric?
ERIC	Can't say I do.

ERIC	Jack! I didn't like that.
CARTER	You should have told me who you were working for.
ERIC	Cyril didn't like it, either.
CARTER	Oh, Cyril, eh? So it's all girls together, is it?
ERIC	He's thinking Sid and Gerald won't like it much when they hear you've been sticking your nose in.

ERIC	You're finished, Jack. You know that, don't you? I've bloody finished you.
CARTER	Not till I'm dead, Eric.

CARTER	You couldn't win an egg and spoon race, Eric.
ERIC	Sod off.

CARTER	Eh? Have a drink.
ERIC	Still got your sense of humour.

CARTER	Yes, I can see your problem, Mr Kinnear.
KINNEAR	Sit down, Jack,  I could weep. I really could. Sometimes I think I'll retire. Just piss off to the Bahamas and let somebody else employ them,  Glenda, get Jack a drink. What is it, Jack?
CARTER	Scotch, please.
KINNEAR	Piss off, Ray.

KINNEAR	Eric told me of your bereavement.
CARTER	Yep.
KINNEAR	Do you know, I never knew he worked in one of my places!
CARTER	No? Funny that. Neither did I.
KINNEAR	If I'd known, I'd have fixed him up with something better.
CARTER	Yeah.
KINNEAR	Nasty way to go.
CARTER	Yes.

KINNEAR	Not going, Jack?
CARTER	I have to. Things to see to.
KINNEAR	Of course, of course. Well, any time, just drop by.
CARTER	Yeah, I'll do that.  Told you it wouldn't take long, didn't I?

CON	Gerald phoned us in the middle of the night, said he'd heard you've been making a nuisance of yourself.
PETER	We've got to take you back to London.
CON	He said it'd be doing him a big favour.

CON	We know why you're all steamed up, and so do Gerald and Sid.
PETER	But they have to be diplomatic.

CON	Put it away, Jack. You know you won't use it.
PETER	The gun he means.

CON	Gerald wants to see him first.
PETER	Shut up.

GERALD	Bollock naked with his socks still on?
SID	They do that up North.
GERALD	What for? Protective purposes?

SID	Ask me?
GERALD	Ask Jack. It's his old stamping ground.

GERALD	Not suede boots!
SID	Knock it off, Gerald.
GERALD	What? And get the clap?

HARRY	Are we here to play cards or talk about the old days?
KINNEAR	Harry! Jack, I don't want to be rude, but these men have brought a lot of money with them. Glenda, you don't offer a man like Jack a drink in those piddling little glasses.  Give him the bloody bottle.  Now, where are we?

KINNEAR	Oh... I think I'll stay as I am.
HARRY	You're bluffing, you bastard!
KINNEAR	That's what you pay to find out. Right, Jack?

HARRY	What's that? A hundred?
KINNEAR	That's right, Harry.
HARRY	Your hundred, and another hundred.

HARRY	What's that?
KINNEAR	That, Harry? That's another hundred - twenty-five pounds notes of the realm.
HARRY	Three hundred altogether?
KINNEAR	Three hundred altogether, Harry.

HARRY	All right. Two hundred.
KINNEAR	Ha.

HARRY	What's that?
KINNEAR	That's six hundred pounds, Harry. Two hundred to follow you, and I've raised it four hundred.

HARRY	Four hundred?
KINNEAR	That's right.
HARRY	You're not seeing me?
KINNEAR	No.

HARRY	I'll see you, then.
KINNEAR	Calling my bluff, are you, Harry?

KINNEAR	How about that, Jack?  Old Harry thought I was having him on.
HARRY	Shut up.

AGENT BOB	Listen to this bullshit.  "This is our world now. The world of the electron and the switch, the beauty of the baud. We exist without nationality, skin color, or religious bias. You wage wars, murder, cheat, lie to us and try to make us believe it's for our own good, yet we're the criminals. Yes, I am a criminal. My crime is that of curiosity. I am a hacker and this is my manifesto." Huh, right, manifesto? "You may stop me, but you can't stop us all."
AGENT RAY	Now that's cool.
AGENT BOB	Cool?
AGENT RAY	Yeah, cool.
AGENT BOB	You think it's cool?
AGENT RAY	It's cool!
AGENT BOB	It's not cool. It's commie bullshit!

AGENT RAY	Secret Service!
AGENT BOB	Don't move!

GILL	How's it going, Ray?
AGENT RAY	It looks good, sir. We've got an uncorrupted hard drive.
GILL	In English, please. I didn't spend ten years protecting the president so I could finish my career feeling like an idiot.
AGENT RAY	I'm sorry, sir. We caught him by surprise, so we don't think he had time to erase his computer files.
GILL	Good. Good man. Alright, let's finish up here, and take him in for interrogation.
AGENT RAY	Alright sir.

RAZOR	Welcome to our show!
BLADE	Hack the Planet!

BLADE	As you can see, this is just a simple microcassette recorder.   Hook it up to the phone and drop in five bucks in quarters.
RAZOR	Record the tones that the coins make. And hang up and get your money back!
BLADE	And never again have to pay for a service that would be dirt cheap...
RAZOR	...IF it weren't run by a bunch of profiteering gluttons!
BLADE	Remember, hacking is more than just a crime. It's a survival trait!

BLADE	Let's keep her.
RAZOR	Waste the dude.

RAZOR	She's rabid, but cute.
BLADE	See, we're very busy. A TV network that wishes to remain nameless has expressed an interest in our show.

BLADE	That's it! An electronic army! If I were us, I'd get on the internet, send out a major distress signal.
RAZOR	Hackers of the World, Unite!
BLADE	How are you going to take care of the cops?

CEREAL	What's that?
DADE	Devil book. The Unix Bible.

CEREAL	What's that?
DADE	Dragon book. Compiler design.

CEREAL	Oh yeah? What's that?
DADE	The Red Book. NSA Trusted Networks. Otherwise known as the Ugly Red Book that won't fit on a shelf.

DADE	Maybe. But, if I were gonna hack some heavy metal, I'd, uh, work my way back through some low security, and try the back door.
CEREAL	Yeah but oh man,  wouldn't you just love to get one of those Gibsons, baby? Ooooh!

CEREAL	So what do you think, can I crash at your place tonight?
DADE	What is it with this guy?

DADE	Shit!
CEREAL	Shh!
DADE	Was that her top?

CEREAL	Right.
DADE	The sensitive type.

DADE	I can't. Everybody who touches that thing gets busted, I can't afford to get arrested, I'm sorry.
CEREAL	Maybe I should just go to the bathroom or something.

DADE	What?
CEREAL	Check this out. It's a memo about how they're gonna deal with those oil spills that happened on the fourteenth.

CEREAL	Uh... Nikon, can I... can I crash at your place tonight?
NIKON	Again?  Yeah sure.

CEREAL	Active matrix, man. A million psychedelic colors. Man, baby, sweet, ooo!
NIKON	I want it.

NIKON	Very impressive.
CEREAL	Super hero like even.

CEREAL	Hold on a second!
NIKON	Look at this, it's so lean and clean.
CEREAL	Looks like a hacker wrote it.

CEREAL	Oh man. That's universally stupid, man!
NIKON	Yo, man, you an amateur, man.

NIKON	Biggest crash in history, front page, New York Times, August 10th, 1988. I thought you was black, man! Yo, man, this is Zero Cool! Oh, shit!
CEREAL	That's far out!
NIKON	This is Zero Cool, man! Whooo, haha!

CEREAL	Ta-da!
NIKON	Yo, brain dead, the manual!

CEREAL	Snoop onto them...
NIKON	...as they snoop onto us.

NIKON	Well, I got a lot, alright? I don't know how many but... my head hurts.
CEREAL	Yo, everyone check this out. Hey, what's the Da Vinci virus?

NIKON	Damn!
CEREAL	A worm AND a virus? The plot thickens.

CEREAL	...and your name goes through like seventeen computers a day. 1984, yeah right man, that's a typo. Orwell's here and now, he's living large. We have no names, man, no names. We are nameless. Can I score a fry? Thanks.
PHREAK	Meet Cereal Killer. As in Froot Loops? But he does know things.

PHREAK	What are you, stoned or stupid? You don't hack a bank across state lines from your house, you'll get nailed by the FBI. Where are your brains, in your ass? Don't you know anything?
CEREAL	Stupid, man. It's universally stupid.

CEREAL	Yeah but don't forget God. System operators love to use God. It's that whole male ego thing.
PHREAK	Look, you wanna be elite? You gotta do a righteous hack. None of this accidental shit.
CEREAL	Oh yeah, you want a seriously righteous hack, you score one of those Gibsons man. You know, supercomputers they use to like, do physics, and look for oil and stuff?
PHREAK	Ain't no way, man, security's too tight. The big iron?

PHREAK	Cereal, man, you owe me a pack.
CEREAL	It was him, man!
PHREAK	You're psyched. You need to lay off of that shit.
CEREAL	I'm gonna hit you!

PHREAK	His parents missed Woodstock and he's been making up for it since. Hey, you hear about Joey's bust?
CEREAL	Yeah. Probably had something to do with that bank in Idaho.
PHREAK	Do you think he could hack a Gibson?

PHREAK	I want it to have my children!
CEREAL	Yeah, I bet it looks crispy in the dark.
PHREAK	Yo, hit the lights.

PHREAK	One-handed!
CEREAL	Difficulty rating?

CEREAL	Nonononono. Truce, you guys. Listen, we got a higher purpose here, alright? A wake up call for the Nintendo Generation. We demand free access to data, well, it comes with some responsibility. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man I put away childish things.  What... It's Corinthians I, Chapter 13, verse 11, no duh. Come on.
KATE	Phreak and Joey are being framed. We need your help to figure out what's on this disc.

CEREAL	Oh wow, we are fried.
KATE	Never send a boy to do a woman's job. With me, we can do it in seven.
CEREAL	You're both screwed. I help, we can do it in six.

CEREAL	Well this hasn't happened yet.
KATE	Wait a minute, the fourteenth, that's the same day the worm ends its run.  I mean... Da Vinci virus, didn't Phreak say that's what he was being charged with? Look...  "Infecting ballast programs of Ellingson tankers" - they blame hackers!

CEREAL	Ai! Boom boom aiaiaiaiaee! Alright, that was a little tension breaker, that had to be done, alright?
KATE	Cereal.
CEREAL	Yeah?
KATE	Go fix the phones.
CEREAL	Roger.

DADE	Who's that?
PHREAK	Curtis.
DADE	And what's he do?
PHREAK	That's it, you're looking at it, he just looks slick all day.

DADE	You heard of a hacker called Acid Burn? You know who he is?
PHREAK	No, don't know who he is.  Do you?

DADE	Did you talk to him?
PHREAK	Nope. His mom said he's grounded for his next three lifetimes.  He isn't to consort with his computer friends.  The secret service is really out to get him.  Hey there's a big party tonight, you wanna go?

PHREAK	Yo. Check this out guys, this is insanely great, it's got a 28.8 BPS modem!
DADE	Yeah? Display?

DADE	Dead.
PHREAK	Dead?
DADE	Yeah. Like Rigor Mortis, Habeas Corpus.

PHREAK	Due to Mr. Gill's untimely demise and everything, I guess you two will have to improvise the next round.
DADE	Right. If I win, you wear a dress on our date.

MRS. MURPHY	Dade?
DADE	Yeah, mom?
MRS. MURPHY	What are you doing?
DADE	I'm taking over a TV network.
MRS. MURPHY	Finish up, honey, and get to sleep. And happy birthday.

MRS. MURPHY	Good morning. You unpack your stuff yet?
DADE	Mm-hmm.
MRS. MURPHY	Up all night again, huh?
DADE	Can this wait until both my eyes are open, please?

MRS. MURPHY	Can I cut the electricity to his room so he'll sleep normal hours? He's been playing with his computer all night for a solid week.  Well yes, he could be playing with himself. Mmm hmm. Yes I'll ask. Dade, you like girls, don't you?
DADE	Well, yeah, I just haven't found one as charming as you yet.
MRS. MURPHY	You haven't been doing anything stupid, right, Dade?  Right, Dade?!
DADE	Right, mom. And I'm still a virgin!

MRS. MURPHY	How was school?
DADE	Hmmm.
MRS. MURPHY	What did we learn in school today?
DADE	Revenge.
MRS. MURPHY	Aaaah. Did we meet someone special?
DADE	No. No one special.
MRS. MURPHY	Okay, I gotta get back to work. I'm gonna be home late.  And would you try and please fill these out?

DADE	Right. Anything else, you want me to mow the lawn? Oops, forgot. New York. No grass.
MRS. MURPHY	And unpack.

PLAGUE	Loser.  I can't believe you were only eleven when you wrote this. It's quite an impressive virus. Dade, I know how you might feel about narking on your friends, but, we're hackers. For us, there's no such thing as family and friends. We're each our own country, with temporary allies and enemies. I'd like to make a treaty with you.
DADE	I'm sorry. Who are you?
PLAGUE	I'm the one who understands you. Now, can we be allies?
DADE	Nah. I don't play well with others.

DADE	Shit! Come on!
PLAGUE	Watch which friends you do play with. A record like yours could land you in jail, get you kicked out of school, no colleges would take you. No future. Exiled from everyone and everything you love.

PLAGUE	I'm fine.  Oh, and Dade, try to stay out of trouble, okay?
DADE	Blow me.
PLAGUE	Thank you!

PLAGUE	The girl. The girl has the disc I need.
DADE	I told you, I don't play well with others.
PLAGUE	Turn on your laptop. Set it to receive a file.

PLAGUE	Lauren Murphy is now a wanted felon in the state of Washington. Forgery, Embezzlement, two drug convictions, plus she jumped parole. When she's arrested, she will not have a trial, she will not pass go, she will go directly to jail. Then I change this file back to the original, and your mom disappears.
DADE	That's bullshit.
PLAGUE	What can I tell you. Computers never lie, kid. Your mom will be arrested at work, she'll be handcuffed, and later, strip searched.
DADE	You lay a finger on her and I'll kill you.
PLAGUE	Kid, don't threaten me. There are worse things than death and, uh, I can do all of them!

PLAGUE	Talk to me.
DADE	I got it. But listen, Kate didn't know what's on it. I mean, she came to me to figure it out. She's not the one who planted the virus. You leave her alone.
PLAGUE	Hey, don't worry, kid. If she's innocent, she'll be fine. Your mommy's safe now, okay?

PLAGUE	Game's over. Last chance to get out of this without a prison sentence.  You're not good enough to beat me, you little shit.
DADE	Yeah, maybe I'm not. But we are, you asshole.
PLAGUE	Give it up! Just give it up.

DADE	I found it! I found it!
PLAGUE	This is the end, my friend.  Thank you for calling!

DADE	Crash Override.
NIKON	Never heard of you. Done anything?
DADE	No.

NIKON	Yo, showtime, showtime!
DADE	What's going on?

NIKON	That's Razor and Blade.
DADE	Razor and Blade.

NIKON	Look out, man. Lisa Blair, 26 East 7th St., apartment 16, 555-4817, BOOM!
DADE	How did you know that?
NIKON	I got photographic memory.  It's a curse!  Lisa!

NIKON	Seven. Wow! Burn's wetware matches her software!
DADE	Burn!

DADE	This isn't a virus. It's a worm!
NIKON	What's this one eat?
DADE	It nibbles. You see this?

NIKON	Two days.
DADE	And judging by this segment alone, it's already eaten about...

NIKON	They'll trace you like that  man, cops are gonna find you, they're gonna find you with a smoking gun.
DADE	Fucked if I care, man.
NIKON	Look, even if you had the passwords, it'll take you ten minutes to get in, and you've still gotta find the files, man, I mean, the cops will have you in... five minutes.

NIKON	Jesus, I gotta save all your asses. I help, we can do it in five minutes, man.
DADE	Okay. Let's go shopping.

DADE	Oh, shit! He got me.
NIKON	Joey's getting stupid busy.

NIKON	Yes!
DADE	We did it!

KATE	Here's your class.
DADE	My... class. You mean I'm not in your class?
KATE	No, you're not in my class.

KATE	Yeah, there's an Olympic size swimming pool up on the roof. Take the stairs over there.
DADE	Yeah! Sure.

DADE	That's a nice score for a girl.
KATE	Think you can do better?
DADE	I'll give it a shot.

KATE	What the hell is going on?
DADE	Pool on the roof must have a leak.

KATE	He's not in this class.
DADE	I said give me time.
KATE	He's not enrolled in this class.

DADE	Burn. You're Acid Burn. You booted me out of OTV!
KATE	What?
DADE	I'm Crash Override.
KATE	You're the moron that's been invading my turf?

KATE	What the hell are you doing?
DADE	It's cool, I'm just looking.
KATE	It's too much machine for you.
DADE	Yeah?

DADE	It has a killer refresh rate.
KATE	P6 chip. Triple the speed of the Pentium.
DADE	Yeah. It's not just the chip, it has a PCI bus. But you knew that.
KATE	Indeed. RISC architecture is gonna change everything.
DADE	Yeah. RISC is good.

DADE	You sure this sweet machine's not going to waste?
KATE	Crash Override. What was it. "Mess with the Best, Die Like the Rest?"
DADE	Yeah.
KATE	Are you challenging me?
DADE	Name your stakes.
KATE	If I win, you become my slave.
DADE	Your slave?
KATE	You wish. You'll do shit work, scan, crack copyrights, whatever I want.
DADE	And if I win?
KATE	Make it my first born.
DADE	Make it our first date.
KATE	You're not gonna win.
DADE	And you have to smile.
KATE	I don't do dates. But I don't lose either, so you're on.

KATE	We need your help.
DADE	Do my ears deceive me?

KATE	What is it with you? I know we've been playing games, but, we're supposed to be on the same side and we really need your help. I really need your help.
DADE	I'm sorry, I can't.
KATE	Well, could you just make a copy of the disc? And just hide it in case we get busted, so we have something to give our lawyers, something that hasn't been tampered with? Can you do that?

KATE	Thank you.
DADE	Okay. I'll copy it.
KATE	Okay, thank you.

DADE	Kate, listen.
KATE	Uh, hold on...
DADE	I have to tell you something.

DADE	This is every financial transaction Ellingson conducts, yeah? From million dollar deals to the ten bucks some guy pays for gas.
KATE	The worm eats a few cents from each transaction.
DADE	And no one's caught it because the money isn't really gone. It's just data being shifted around.
KATE	Right. And when the worm's ready, it zips out with the money and erases its tracks.
DADE	Joey got cut off before he got to that part. Check it out. By this point, it's already running at, what, twice the speed as when it started.
KATE	Right, and at this rate it ends its run in...

KATE	Whoever wrote this needs somebody to take the fall. And that's Phreak, and that's Joey, and that's us. We've got to get the rest of the file, so we can find out where the money is going before the worm disappears, so we can find out WHO created it.
DADE	I know, I know who wrote it.
KATE	What?
DADE	This Ellingson security creep. I gave him a copy of the disc you gave me.
KATE	You what?
DADE	I didn't know what was on it.

KATE	Why did he come to you?
DADE	I got a record. I was Zero Cool.

KATE	Well that's great. There goes MIT.
DADE	I'll make it up to you!
KATE	How?
DADE	I'll hack the Gibson.

DADE	Shit!!
KATE	It's my subway defense system.

KATE	Alright, so what have we got?
DADE	Well, we have fifty passwords, plus whatever Polaroid head here got inside Ellingson.

KATE	There they are!
DADE	Razor and Blade! They're flakes!
KATE	They're elite! Let's get 'em.

KATE	A virus called Da Vinci will cause oil spills at 10:30 AM Eastern Time tomorrow.
DADE	It's somehow connected with the worm that's stealing the money.
KATE	We need your help to overload the Gibson so we can kill the Da Vinci virus and download the worm program.

KATE	Ready?
DADE	Yeah.
KATE	Alright, let's boot up.

KATE	It's the Gibson, it's finding us too fast.
DADE	Man, there's too many garbage files, I need more time.

KATE	Are you crazy? What are you doing?
DADE	I'm trying to help you.

KATE	Dade.
DADE	What?
KATE	Thanks for your help.

KATE	Oh, wow, she's great.
DADE	Yeah.

DADE	You look good in a dress.
KATE	You would have looked better.
DADE	Wanna go for a swim?

KATE	I can't believe they decided you won.
DADE	They didn't. The guys felt it was the only way I'd get a date. Anyway, you're pretty good. You're elite.
KATE	Yeah? You know if you would have said so in the beginning, you would have saved yourself a whole lot of trouble.

DADE	You know, I've been having these really weird..
KATE	Dreams?

NORM	Security, uh Norm, Norm speaking.
DADE	Norman? This is Mr. Eddie Vedder, from Accounting. I just had a power surge here at home that wiped out a file I was working on. Listen, I'm in big trouble, do you know anything about computers?
NORM	Uhhmmm... uh gee, uh...
DADE	Right, well my BLT drive on my computer just went AWOL, and I've got this big project due tomorrow for Mr. Kawasaki, and if I don't get it in, he's gonna ask me to commit Hari Kari...
NORM	Uhhh.. ahahaha...
DADE	Yeah, well, you know these Japanese management techniques.  Could you, uh, read me the number on the modem?
NORM	Uhhhmm...
DADE	It's a little boxy thing, Norm, with switches on it... lets my computer talk to the one there...
NORM	212-555-4240.

DADE	Excuse me.
KID	Yo, chill man, I'm talking to Venezuela.
DADE	Yeah, I'm sorry, I was just looking for the principal's office.
KID	Sorry, I can't help you, okay?

KID	So, um, what's your interest in Kate Libby, eh? Academic? Purely sexual?
DADE	Homicidal?
KID	What's up, man? I'm the Phreak!

GILL	Did you find the program for the virus on any of the discs we confiscated?
PLAGUE	No. He's either very smart or very stupid.
GILL	Then he stashed it somewhere, or he has an accomplice. We'll release him until his indictment, keep tight surveillance, and see if he leads us to your disc.

PLAGUE	Gill.
GILL	I think we've got something.

GILL	It got you seven years probation. No computer, couldn't even use a touch tone phone.
PLAGUE	Must have been hell, huh? Zero Cool?  A virus has been planted in the Ellingson Mineral computer system. You were our prime suspect, till we trashed your stuff and found no trace of it.
GILL	However, we have come to believe that one Joey Pardella is involved in this Ellingson virus. He or perhaps his accomplice has a disk that Mr. Belford needs to disable that virus. We want you to help us find it.
PLAGUE	Gill.

PLAGUE	Hello?
GILL	We caught 'em.
PLAGUE	Good.
GILL	Red handed! You won't be having any more trouble from them.

GILL	You're welcome.
PLAGUE	What's going on? Let go of me! Stewardess! I'll never fly this airline again!

HAL	There's a new virus in the database.
MARGO	What's happening?
HAL	It's replicating, eating up memory. What do I do?

HAL	A rabbit replicates till it overloads a file, then it spreads like cancer.
MARGO	Cancer?

MARGO	Colonel who?
HAL	The System Command Processor, it's the brain.
MARGO	Cancer, brain... Brain Cancer?

HAL	Mr. Belford?
PLAGUE	My name is the Plague.
HAL	Uh, Mr. The Plague, uh, something weird's happening on the net.
PLAGUE	As in what, you hapless techno-weenie?
HAL	Uh, the accounting subdirectory in the Gibson is working really hard. We got one person online, the workload is enough for like ten users. I think we've got a hacker.

PLAGUE	Never fear. I is here.
HAL	I've narrowed the activity to terminal 23.
PLAGUE	Let's echo 23, see what's up.

HAL	We have a Zero Bug attacking all the login and overlay files.
PLAGUE	Run anti-virus. Give me a systems display!

PLAGUE	Die, dickweeds!
HAL	The rabbit is in the administration system.

JOEY	Phreakphreakphreakphreakphreak, dudedudedudedudedudedude... I gotta...
PHREAK	Joey, Joey...
JOEY	What? whatwhatwhat?
PHREAK	One more "dude" out of you and I'm gonna slap the shit outa you, okay? Now I'm trying to save you from yourself but you gotta stop letting your mama dress you, man! : Check it...

JOEY	I need a handle, man. I don't have an identity until I have a handle.
PHREAK	You know, you're right about that.  Check it, Friday.

JOEY	Alright. How about the Master of Disaster, huh?
PHREAK	You're hopeless, man, utterly hopeless.

JOEY	Anyways, guys, guys, listen, listen to me. I'm in this computer right? So I'm looking around...
PHREAK	D'you bring those Crayola books?

JOEY	You guys always think I should know everything, and you never tell me anything. Am I right?
PHREAK	Alright, what are the three most commonly used passwords?
JOEY	Love, secret, and uh, sex.  But not in that order, necessarily, right?

PHREAK	Yo, what's up?
JOEY	Dude dude dude, I gotta talk to you a minute, listen listen listen. I copied a garbage file from...
PHREAK	Big deal. A garbage file's got shit in it, Joey, come on.
JOEY	Nono, it's like hot or something. I don't know.
PHREAK	Joey, a garbage file holds miscellaneous data. Junk. Bits of stuff that's been erased, man.
JOEY	I copied it from Ellingson, okay? They're asking me about it, alright? Will you take a look for me?

KATE	Hey! What are you guys doing in here?
PHREAK	I'm sorry, we're sorry, just checking out your fly laptop!

KATE	What is he doing in here?
PHREAK	Relax, Burn, he's my guest.

PHREAK	Any questions?
KATE	Yeah. Whose gonna notify his next of kin?

KATE	Hello?
PHREAK	Hey, it's me.
KATE	Phreak?
PHREAK	I'm freaking! Joey wasn't making it up! He really hacked into Ellingson! He gave me the disc with a file he copied and now I'm in jail! They're charging me with some serious shit! And there's stuff I didn't even do, like inserting some virus called Da Vinci, and they keep asking about you guys.
KATE	You think they're going to bust us?
PHREAK	Yeah! You better figure out what's on that disc, cause we're being framed. It's in that place where I put that thing that time?

MARGO	Good morning, Gentlemen. Please be seated. I see we're still dressing in the dark, Eugene.
PLAGUE	Once again, don't call me Eugene.  A recent unknown intruder penetrated, using a superuser acount, giving him access to our whole system.
MARGO	Precisely what you're paid to prevent.
PLAGUE	Someone didn't bother reading my carefully prepared memo on commonly used passwords. Now, as I so meticulously pointed out, the for most used passwords are love,  sex, secret and...  ...God. So would your holiness care to change her password?

PLAGUE	A hacker planted the virus.
MARGO	Virus?
PLAGUE	Yesterday, the ballast program for a supertanker training model mistakenly thought the vessel was empty, and flooded its tanks.
MARGO	Excuse me?
PLAGUE	The little boat flipped over. A virus planted in the Gibson computer system claimed responsibility.
MARGO	What, it left a note?

MARGO	So what are we supposed to do?
PLAGUE	Well luckily, you have a gifted and talented security officer. I traced the hacker's call. The secret service picked him up this morning. I'll just search his files for the original virus code, and then I can eliminate it.

MARGO	What the hell was that all about?
PLAGUE	I had to move fast. The hacker copied my garbage file.
MARGO	What?
PLAGUE	I created Mister da Vinci so we could call in the Secret Service. So they'd arrest the hacker, sieze his equipment, things that we can't do on our own.
MARGO	I don't want to go to jail for this.
PLAGUE	Relax. Think about the 25 million dollars.
MARGO	But you've created a virus that's going to cause a worldwide ecological disaster, just to arrest some hacker kid?
PLAGUE	Basically, uhmm, yeah. Mmm hmmm.
MARGO	Jesus. You know, you're sick, Eugene. You...
PLAGUE	Sh, sh sh sh sh.

MARGO	Murphy kid turn you down?
PLAGUE	I disguised myself as an Alabama State Trooper and penetrated the FBI NCIC.
MARGO	Pervert! What are you talking about?

PLAGUE	The FBI computer holds files on twenty million Americans.  I just hacked into it.
MARGO	Congratulations.
PLAGUE	From here I got access to every piece of data ever stored on Dade Murphy's parents. His parents separated five years ago, reconciled two years later, filed for divorce last year, custody battle, boy chose to go with his mother. Hmm.
MARGO	So?
PLAGUE	So, we get the mother, we get the boy.

MARGO	They had a large chunk of the garbage file? How much do they know?
PLAGUE	Not everything. But enough to implicate us.
MARGO	You said the worm was untreaceable!
PLAGUE	Yeah. To civilians. But they're hackers. But don't worry. All we have to do is launch the Da Vinci virus, and then they'll all be put away.
MARGO	Launch the Da Vinci virus? You can't do that!
PLAGUE	No one believes the guilty. Besides, by the time they realize the truth, we'll be long gone with all of our money.

MARGO	What is it? What's wrong?
PLAGUE	Nothing, it's just a minor glitch.
MARGO	Minor glitch with you seems to turn into a major catastrophe.

PLAGUE	Send a Flu-shot.
MARGO	Rabbit, Flu-shot, someone talk to me.

OPERATOR	Thank you.
PHREAK	Nonono, thank YOU!

OPERATOR	Hello, operator services.
PHREAK	Hello, operator? I'm having trouble dialing a number.
OPERATOR	What number please?
PHREAK	555-4202.
OPERATOR	Just one moment.
PHREAK	Thank you.

CLAIRE	I missed you.
PETER	Do you think they have a room here?

CLAIRE	How'd your interview go?  I'm sure you charmed the hell out of Sally.
PETER	She's a talk show host.  They can't be charmed.  By definition.

CLAIRE	It's great of you to let William and Susan stay at the house until he gets on his feet.
PETER	It's Susan's cooking, Claire.  That's why Uncle James lets them stay.

CLAIRE	You never said anything to me...
PETER	It's probably trivial.

PETER	Shi... Sorry, honey.  I was having the weirdest dream.
CLAIRE	Bad?
PETER	Weird.  The book again.  Sex spelled backwards...
CLAIRE	I must really be slacking off.  Hungry?
PETER	Uh...sure...I...what?
CLAIRE	Sushi.

CLAIRE	I can't believe it's already starting to get dark so early.
PETER	Hmmm.
CLAIRE	You know, there was a guy on the radio today trying to explain why we're losing daylight.  Quarks and dark matter, things like that.  Even how daylight savings has caught up with us over the last hundred years and our universal watch is just fast, you know?

CLAIRE	Peter, where are you?
PETER	Sorry.  It's just...a strange woman waltzes into my office today.  Tells me she murdered her parents and can prove Satan exists.
CLAIRE	Did she waltz in or fly on little bat wings?
PETER	Says she can get me in to see this killer.
CLAIRE	Now that you're on TV, you're a magnet for all the wackos out there.

CLAIRE	Oh, Peter, you're going to pursue this.
PETER	No.  Of course not.  Mmmm.  Anago.  My favorite.

CLAIRE	Hey, what are you doing here in the middle of the day?
PETER	Forgot my car keys.  What are you doing on the fourth floor?
CLAIRE	I spaced out.
PETER	Well, it's a nice surprise.  Should I hit the "stop" button?

CLAIRE	What?  That's horrible!
PETER	What happened?

PETER	Yeah, I appreciate it.  Thanks, Josef.
CLAIRE	When did they find her?

CLAIRE	I'm still shaking.
PETER	I can't believe Will killed him.
CLAIRE	Thank God he did.

PETER	I'm gonna have to get a restraining order.  What a nightmare.
CLAIRE	I don't know.  In a way, I'm glad it all happened.

PETER	You're glad somebody tried to kill me?
CLAIRE	No, of course not, but I think now that this has happened, a lot of things can start to come out...
PETER	Yeah, like...
CLAIRE	Like you need to admit that losing your parents when you were twelve was traumatic.
PETER	It's with me all the time, Claire, I just don't like to talk about it.
CLAIRE	Well, it shattered your faith in everything.
PETER	I'm just temporarily off my game.
CLAIRE	You need to believe in something besides yourself.
PETER	I believe in you.

CLAIRE	There you are!  My God, darling, I've been so worried.  Are you alright?
PETER	Claire...
CLAIRE	This is the person...you were talking about?

PETER	What're these?
CLAIRE	I don't know.  What are they?
PETER	I found them in your file box.
CLAIRE	Must be a spare set.
PETER	I thought the spare set was in the kitchen drawer.

CLAIRE	Honey, you're exhausted.  Do you want to lie down for a little while?
PETER	I found the pentacle.

CLAIRE	She's been stalking you, Peter.
PETER	So you're going to kill her?  Put the gun down Claire.

CLAIRE	Listen to me, I love you, Peter, I'm trying to protect you!
PETER	You really had me going, Claire.  I was finally ready to propose to you.
CLAIRE	We're still going to be together.

FATHER JAMES	What a...jerk!
CLAIRE	Peter, are you okay?

FATHER JAMES	Nonsense, it's all of our home.  So how's work treating you?
CLAIRE	Frustrating.  Form over content. Everything's so retro.
FATHER JAMES	Well, if Peter here would hop off his laurels long enough to marry you...

CLAIRE	...you wearing a watch, Father?
FATHER JAMES	Yes.  It's exactly...

CLAIRE	You know, I made a reservation at Marco's for Peter's birthday dinner, but maybe you should cater it.
FATHER JAMES	What time did you make it for?
CLAIRE	Eight.  That okay?

MR. SILBERMAN	Yes.
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	And how would you describe him?
MR. SILBERMAN	Quiet.  Real quiet...
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	And on the day of the murders, his state of mind?
MR. SILBERMAN	Seemed...on edge.
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	On the day of the murders  what did the defendant request?
MR. SILBERMAN	He asked to go home early.  He said he was bothered by all the people who kept telling him what to do.
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	Tell the jury how many people work in that office with you and Mr. Viznick.
MR. SILBERMAN	Just me.

DEFENSE ATTORNEY	George, come in.  What the hell happened to you?
VIZNICK	It's nothing.
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	Sure it is.  If the guards did this, we can file charges.
VIZNICK	Not the guards.  Some of the prisoners are easily disturbed.
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	You have to tell me who did it.

VIZNICK	I can take care of myself.
DEFENSE ATTORNEY	I'm gonna go make a stink.  Sit tight. I'll make sure you get a change of clothes.

DR. ALLEN	Mr. Kelson, what a pleasure to meet you. I have to say your instincts about the criminally insane are impeccable.  I am a fan.
PETER	Quite a compliment coming from you, doctor.

DR. ALLEN	When your secretary called, she made no mention of her coming, too.
PETER	My secretary?
DR. ALLEN	You're aware that this woman was party to the so-called exorcism.
PETER	No, I wasn't, actually.
DR. ALLEN	You should know I never felt Mr. Birdson needed anything but professional psychiatric care.  And then, minutes after they left, he suffered a stroke. He's comatose.  No brain wave activity at all.

PETER	So you don't believe his condition is the result of anything supernatural?
DR. ALLEN	Of course not.  They put him through severe mental stress.  Causing this aneurysm.

LAREAUX	Your court order, Dr. Allen.
DR. ALLEN	You know I'm not comfortable with this.
LAREAUX	But your patient is legally entitled to it.
DR. ALLEN	This patient has been plagued with temporal lobe seizures.
LAREAUX	It's the patient's request, doctor.
DR. ALLEN	I'm aware of that, but I don't think he's in any condition to make requests. I'm trying to appeal to your more...logical self, Father.  I'm concerned about harm to my patient.
LAREAUX	Father Jeremy and Deacon John Townsend of St. Ursula's, and our associate, Maya Larkin.  Secular assistants are permitted if regarded as qualified.  Maya is eminently qualified.
DR. ALLEN	I think I should join you.

MAYA	Dr. Allen, could you please tell Mr. Kelson what you heard as you tried to enter Mr. Birdson's room?
DR. ALLEN	I certainly hope you're not lending any credence to this.
MAYA	What did you hear?

DR. ALLEN	The patient was in great distress. Naturally he was...yelling.
MAYA	And was he in distress when you opened the door?  Or was he sitting here, relaxed, at this table?
DR. ALLEN	There is a medical explanation for everything that happened.
MAYA	You heard voices, you know you did.

FATHER FRANK	I don't mean to belittle you, but we've been through this before.  Satan is not what you think he is.  Satan is not some creature.
MAYA	You weren't there.  Give me time to get some proof.
FATHER FRANK	Please, Maya.  I'm trying to get us into the next century and you insist on this medieval nonsense.
MAYA	If you really believe in God, why is it so inconceivable that his enemy is just as real?
FATHER FRANK	Maya, for the last time, I will not tolerate these obsessions.

FATHER FRANK	The doctor's concerned he may never come out of this dementia.
MAYA	He will.  He has great faith.
FATHER FRANK	But bad judgement.  And now you see how dangerous the consequences can be.

FATHER FRANK	Is he going to be okay?
MAYA	I hope so.

FATHER FRANK	I've had it.  Townsend's dead.  The police are calling and now I see you having a scene in front of the children. I'm sorry, Maya, you've been with us for many years, but effective immediately, I'm rescinding your right to live at the church.
MAYA	Father, I have nowhere else to stay.
FATHER FRANK	You have a sister in New Orleans.

MAYA	You'll do it?
FATHER FRANK	I don't have the experience.  Father Thomas should officiate.

FATHER JAMES	How're you doing?  Looking lovely as always.
PETER	You ready?

FATHER JAMES	Between your book sales and this TV thing, there's going to be no living with you.  And let me guess, you boiled God down to a conceit.
PETER	You know how I feel.  The world is random.  The only certainty I believe in is death.
FATHER JAMES	Given all that's happened, I understand. The world is random, but then there's faith.  Where are you in death without it?

FATHER JAMES	What is it?
PETER	Something he said, just before...
FATHER JAMES	He spoke to you?
PETER	Yeah.  It didn't make any sense.
FATHER JAMES	Listen to me, Peter.  You can't let the ravings of a madman disturb you, okay?
PETER	You're right, but it's funny.  All my life I thought I was simply a man who didn't believe in any of it.
FATHER JAMES	No matter, my son, he believes in you.
PETER	But it's true.  I have no faith.  It's strange.  When that gun was pointed at my face tonight, I was surprised, but never frightened.  It was as if I knew nothing could possibly happen to me and...in that one moment I didn't care about anything.  Not eve my own life.
FATHER JAMES	Peter.  Your life must matter to you because it matters to all of us who love you.
PETER	You know, I respect that you have such faith, James.  I don't understand it, but I want you to know that despite our differences, I admire you and I always will.

PETER	You fucking bastard.
FATHER JAMES	Don't you get it?  They had their 2,000 years.  Now it's our turn.
PETER	So all that bullshit about God and faith.
FATHER JAMES	It was perfect.  The harder I pushed, the more you pulled away.
PETER	You lied to me my whole life. Everything you said, everything you did.
FATHER JAMES	Everything I did, I did for you.  I love you, Peter.  Think of it.  I'm giving you a gift, absolute power and knowledge.
PETER	You raised me, like a son.
FATHER JAMES	You are my son.  Don't you see the opportunity that lies before you?
PETER	You killed my parents.
FATHER JAMES	I had to.  There was no other way. Their deaths were part of the greatest legacy I could have given you.

MAYA	Why are you doing this to me?
LAREAUX	I know, Maya, but you'll understand when you see this man.  I really need your strength.

MAYA	-- you wouldn't last five minutes.
LAREAUX	Just open the door, please.

LAREAUX	...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again.
MAYA	Father, I'm right here.
LAREAUX	...the ark sank, the sun set, the ark sank again...

MAYA	Father!  Thank God you're better!  I really need your help.  We've only got a few more hours.
LAREAUX	Don't worry...about the transformation, Maya.
MAYA	What do you mean "don't worry?"
LAREAUX	Well, in my prayers, I realized we've been fooling ourselves and probably... blown this all out of proportion.  God would never allow anything like that to happen.

MAYA	So...we won?
LAREAUX	Yes.  We won, that's right.

MAYA	We won because Christ...triumphed over Satan?
LAREAUX	Um hm.  That's right, Maya.
MAYA	So, if Christ won, that means, what does that mean, Father?  That Satan...
LAREAUX	Would you like to rest, Miette?  You must be exhausted.

MAYA	So I guess Satan lost.  Satan is the weak one.
LAREAUX	Miette, come here and relax.

MAYA	Father, please don't die.
LAREAUX	...art sank, sun set, ark sank again...

MAYA	Hi, I'd like to make an appointment for Peter Kelson.
RECEPTIONIST	Kelson, hold on a second...

MAYA	I took one of those home pregnancy tests, but I don't want to tell him. I'm RH negative.  My blood type is negative...  If he's RH positive, I'll have to terminate.
RECEPTIONIST	How many weeks are you honey/
MAYA	Thirteen.  The last time, can you believe it?  This is how he says "Goodbye?"
RECEPTIONIST	You need his blood-type.  Like right away.
MAYA	Well I know he's come here before.
RECEPTIONIST	What's his name?
MAYA	Peter...Peter Kelson.
RECEPTIONIST	You just call?
MAYA	I didn't know what else to do...

RECEPTIONIST	Two negatives always make a positive.
MAYA	Oh, thank you, thank you so much!

MAYA	Oh my God!
PETER	...as a narcissist, he couldn't blame himself.  He created the voices after the fact.

PETER	May I help you?
MAYA	Peter Kelson?
PETER	Yes... and you are?
MAYA	I saw you on television yesterday.  You were brilliant.
PETER	Thank you.  Do you work in the building? You coming from the party?

MAYA	You said that malignant narcissism was not evil.
PETER	Not pure evil.  That's correct.
MAYA	And also that...
PETER	Listen, I'm sorry, but I'm running late.
MAYA	That there is no such thing as evil with a capital "E."
PETER	Not the most popular opinion, but yes.
MAYA	What if I told you I was a malignant narcissist?

PETER	A narcissist doesn't admit it.  It's the extreme of self-denial.
MAYA	And I also believe in God and the Devil. In fact, I know they exist.
PETER	Well, by saying that, you're acknowledging the existence of a higher power.  Which, to a narcissist, is impossible.
MAYA	I murdered my parents, Mr. Kelson.  And while they deserved it, I still went to confession the following Sunday.

PETER	Ooooooh-kayyyyyy.
MAYA	In the end, the jury saw it my way.
PETER	Well, then it all seems to be working out for you.  Listen, Ms...?
MAYA	Do you remember Henry Birdson?  The math professor who won the Salwen Medal, then went home and killed his family?
PETER	What's that got to do with you?
MAYA	Last week the Catholic Church certified him as genuinely possessed.  You realize how rarely they make that ruling?
PETER	I do.
MAYA	An exorcism was just held for Birdson. It failed.  Disastrously.  Which means there's still a demonic spirit present in his body.  I was wondering, perhaps you'd like to go meet Henry.  He's pretty amazing.
PETER	I'll bet.
MAYA	On television, you seemed so sure of yourself.  If you're really that confident, you'd be willing to let someone prove you wrong?
PETER	The world would be so much simpler if it were all just about good and evil. Unfortunately I find it much more slippery and elusive place.
MAYA	Well, I think it's very simple.  Here's a tape of Birdson's exorcism.  I'll be at the Public Library.  Tomorrow at 2... if you want to meet him.

MAYA	So...what did you think of the tape.
PETER	I think you gave me the wrong one.
MAYA	What do you mean?
PETER	It was blank.  Nothing on it.  You gave me the wrong one.

MAYA	You're sure?  There was nothing?
PETER	I cranked it all the way up.  Nothing but hum.

PETER	So what'd I miss?
MAYA	You're right.  I must've made a mistake.

PETER	Where do you get off pretending to be my secretary?
MAYA	I had to.
PETER	And this is evil?  The guy had an aneurysm and now he's in a coma.
MAYA	That's their explanation.  You might not believe me...
PETER	Well, why should I?  Alright, what's your name, where do you live, when did you kill your parents?

PETER	We need to talk.
MAYA	Peter, please...

PETER	Last night a guy named John Townsend tried to shoot me and now I find out you knew him.  What the fuck is going on?
MAYA	Please, the children.

PETER	Why did he try to kill me?
MAYA	Townsend believed, just as God became man in Christ.  So Satan will assume human form.  I believe it too.

PETER	And the point is?
MAYA	At the exorcism, Birdson boasted that Satan is about to take over the body of a man.  You are that man, Peter.
PETER	What?!?!
MAYA	It's true.  Birdson knew your name, he was writing it in numerical code.  It wasn't easy but I figured it out.  It spelled your name.
PETER	Why didn't Birdson just say so?
MAYA	If you're possessed, you can't reveal anything Satan wants hidden.  Unless you trick him.
PETER	Trick him.
MAYA	The good outwitting the bad.  It's like Birdson had a split personality.
PETER	You should think about getting professional help.
MAYA	You're already contaminated.  It's why you couldn't hear the tape.  There's probably a pentacle near your bed.  To sanctify you.
PETER	I'm not going to be drawn into this.
MAYA	I know this sounds crazy.  I understand. Check your parents' blood types.  Are you sure your parents are your birth parents?
PETER	My parents are dead.  Don't even think of bringing them into this.

MAYA	You're about to become the anti-Christ who is born unholy and becomes the door to eternal suffering in this world.
PETER	If you or any of your lunatic friends ever come near me again...

PETER	I don't understand what's going on.
MAYA	There's no reason why you should.  This has been planned from your birth. You fit all the criteria that we know of.  Never baptized, born of incest, devoid of faith...
PETER	But I was baptized.  And I certainly wasn't born of incest.
MAYA	You were not baptized.  At least I don't believe it was Christian.  Your baptism was performed by your uncle, James McKenzie.
PETER	Yes, I know.
MAYA	The only baptism he ever performed in seven years as pastor at Bedford.
PETER	So what?
MAYA	Seven years.  One baptism?  He's your mother's only brother
PETER	Yes.

MAYA	Do you know your parents' blood types?
PETER	I looked at the coroner's report.  My father's O positive and my mother...A negative.
MAYA	Peter, your blood-type is AB negative. There's no way your birth father can be O positive.  You father is not who you think he is.
PETER	So...then the coroner's report is probably wrong.  I mean...this is ridiculous.  There's been a mistake.  I don't believe any of this.
MAYA	Then why are you here?

MAYA	Peter, I believe your baptism was perverted.  Look at your certificate. Your mother was the only witness to it. Your blood-type doesn't match who you thought your father was.  Peter...I'm sorry.
PETER	And if what you're saying is true, what would happen to me?
MAYA	I don't know.  I do know that people who are possessed have to accept evil in some way.  I don't know if it works the same way in this instance.  I don't even know when it's going to happen.

PETER	When Townsend tried to kill me, he said something strange like...  "The time of transformation is near..."
MAYA	Townsend, he had some of Father's books.

PETER	What are you looking for exactly?
MAYA	The books themselves or maybe some pages he ripped out.

MAYA	We needed to know all we could.
PETER	I'm going to look around.

MAYA	Nothing yet.
PETER	I'll go outside and take a look in the garage.

MAYA	Get up!!
PETER	What's the...OH SHIT!

MAYA	Peter, let go of the chair!
PETER	What?

PETER	You okay?
MAYA	When's your birthday?
PETER	What?

PETER	Hang on, get it up, go on, higher.
MAYA	Your 33rd birthday.  The transformation will be a perversion of Christ's rising from the dead.  Townsend discovered it in one of Lareaux's books.

MAYA	It'll happen at the exact time of your birth.
PETER	That can't be right.  My birthday's tomorrow.

MAYA	He couldn't stop us and that's how he was punished.  Peter, what time were you born?
PETER	I don't know.  Probably have a copy of my birth certificate...my apartment.

MAYA	There's nothing else here.
PETER	What's the bible for?
MAYA	Comfort.

PETER	Are you alright?
MAYA	Sometimes, when I feel weak, I have these...visions.
PETER	What do you mean?
MAYA	I see things.  My worst fears.  You need to know something, Peter.  I was possessed once.  Like Birdson.  It took Father Lareaux six days to pull me out of it.

MAYA	I'm scared I'm slipping back.
PETER	We're going to do this.
MAYA	You have to say that.
PETER	That's true.

PETER	Why did you lie to me about your parents' deaths?
MAYA	I was desperate.  I knew you wrote about murders.  I needed a way in.

PETER	Close call.  For the first time in a long time, it's really hitting me. Life's tenuous.
MAYA	I know it is.  Right after my parents died, I went to the beach...  I was in the water.  Everything was calm.  And then one of those really big waves hit me.  Hard.  Pulled me straight to the bottom.  I struggled and finally ran out of air.  If it hadn't been for my sister who pulled me out, I would've drowned. Legally dead for a couple of minutes is what they told me.
PETER	No oxygen to the brain.
MAYA	Maybe that's my problem.
PETER	Why didn't you just go along with Townsend.  Get rid of me.  I would've...
MAYA	Until it happens, you're still a human being.
PETER	What about after?
MAYA	Only your body will remain.  I believe your soul will be at peace.  If we kill you, Satan can't stay.

PETER	Plenty of time.
MAYA	What are these?
PETER	I don't know.  Extra apartment keys. What's it matter?
MAYA	Maybe I should check Lareaux's book. It's in the car.  Be right back.  Don't go anywhere.
PETER	Sure.

PETER	What can I do?
MAYA	You have to be experienced to do this. Just wait outside. Otherwise, you risk killing him.

MAYA	I'll be all right.  Peter, at the very end, I think Father was back.  I saw it in his eyes.
PETER	So, what does it mean.  The ark sank and the sun set?
MAYA	He's been repeating that since Birdson's exorcism.  I looked in every passage in the Bible and there's nothing about an ark or a sunset that tells us anything.
PETER	What did he say to you in French?
MAYA	That's his, I don't know, his 'grounding' phrase for me, "together, no matter what."
PETER	Terrific.

MAYA	He was trying to tell me something.
PETER	And his message was  "Together, no matter what?"

MAYA	Book five, Deuteronomy, chapter seven, verse five.  "But this shall you deal with them.  You shall break down their altars and burn their graven images with fire."
PETER	And what's that mean?

PETER	How much time do we have?
MAYA	Not a lot.

MAYA	Oh, Peter.
PETER	It's me.  Put the gun down.  Maya...

MAYA	Good seeing you again.
TOWNSEND	Whish the circumstances were different.

TOWNSEND	Hello?
MAYA	I know who he is.
TOWNSEND	Maya?  What do you mean?
MAYA	I'll explain everything later.  Can you meet me tonight?

TOWNSEND	And what are you thinking we should do now?
MAYA	I've filed a report with Father Frank.
TOWNSEND	A lot of good that'll do.
MAYA	We need all the help we can get.
TOWNSEND	I've dealt with these people before, Maya.  They're not going to help us.
MAYA	We'll see Father Frank in the morning. There's nothing to be done until then.
TOWNSEND	Alright, Maya.  We'll do it your way.

TOWNSEND	It's useless...look at him.
MAYA	You can't back out on me now.  We need to be sure.
TOWNSEND	Sure of what?  Who cares if this guy is devoid of faith or sleeps over a pentacle?  Results are what Lareaux would want.

TOWNSEND	You don't want to face it.
MAYA	Look, John, I'm facing it.
TOWNSEND	I'm not waiting until it's too late.

PETER	I'd appreciate it if you'd put that back.
MELVIN	You are the younger of two...

MELVIN	But she worships you.  Your mother's dead but your father's alive.
PETER	Nothing you couldn't find out from reading the papers.  And you're already wrong on one count.
MELVIN	Viznick will get off and Michael's got a crush on you.

PETER	You know what?  You can go.
MELVIN	Suit yourself.  But does this mean anything to you?

MELVIN	You do know, don't you.  That these are also numbers.  Greek numbers, 600, 60 and 6 - or 666.  The sign of the Devil.
PETER	Get out of here.
MELVIN	Goodbye.

MICHAEL	Mr. Kelson, here's the stuff you wanted on pathological narcissism.
PETER	What about that psychic, what's his name, Szabo?
MICHAEL	He can see you Thursday.
PETER	I think it's gonna be a waste of time.
MICHAEL	The police used him as a witness in this case.
PETER	I'll be at Bedford tonight, if you need me.
MICHAEL	Nice suit.

MRS. QUINTANA	I plan to.  You want a tip?
PETER	Lemme guess.  The lottery.
MRS. QUINTANA	Sometimes I can just feel the numbers.
PETER	You know what they say.  You have the same chance of winning whether you play or not.
MRS. QUINTANA	You watch.  One day, I'll hit the jackpot, get the big house, car, clothes.  I'll have more money than God.

PETER	Yeah.
MRS. QUINTANA	It's Detective Smythe.

MRS. QUINTANA	Good of you to stop by.
PETER	We millionaires yet?

SALLY	As a part of today's story on the trial of mass murderer George Viznick, we welcome Peter Kelson, author of the current best-seller, VICIOUS INTENT. Thank you for joining us, Peter.
PETER	Thanks for having me, Sally.
SALLY	Peter, you're now writing a book about the Viznick case.  You seem to be making a career of studying sensational murderers.  I have to ask, how does it make you feel when you sit in courtrooms day after day, face to face with alleged killers?
PETER	Well, long-term exposure to things like this tends to give you a sort of clinical understanding of the subject. After awhile, you begin to make friends with it, so to speak.
SALLY	It's as if you are saying the closer you get to evil, the less evil it becomes.
PETER	No, the less mystifying.  Good and evil are only illusions.  There is no such thing as evil with a capital "E."  That suggests some third party bad guy pulling all the strings.
SALLY	You're referring to the defense's efforts to prove that George Viznick is tormented by "demonic voices?"
PETER	There weren't any voices.
SALLY	Not even from some mental illness, as the prosecution asserts?
PETER	As if there's another cause for little voices?  No, Sally, Viznick's a manipulator, he's clever, he has what I call malignant narcissism.
SALLY	What do you mean by that?
PETER	Well, we all have a degree of narcissism, Sally, but a malignant narcissist is dangerously self-obsessed.
SALLY	Are you saying he's legally sane?
PETER	Well, George Viznick is in the grayest of gray areas in the sanity spectrum. Viznick is not psychotic. He's simply unable to submit to any higher authority.
SALLY	Meaning, Viznick's a man who answers to no one.  Not even God.
PETER	Right.  If you believe in God.  As a narcissist, Viznick couldn't blame himself for the alleged murders.  He created the voices after the fact.  In order to avoid the simple truth that there is no outside force that guides George Viznick and that George Viznick needs to pay.
SALLY	And what about you?  What about Peter Kelson?  Where is your moral compass?

SALLY	Would you sign it for me?
PETER	Of course.

SMYTHE	Hey!  Mr. big shot.
PETER	Mike.  Oh, the christening.  I meant to call...
SMYTHE	Yeah, right.  I don't know why I bothered inviting you guys.  I knew you wouldn't show.

SMYTHE	So, Viznick's got a meet with his lawyer in the ayem.
PETER	Really?  You know, seeing these guys away from the court, the facade slips. You catch things.
SMYTHE	Yeah, yeah.  I've heard it before.  Just be sure you spell my name right.  Nine o'clock?

PETER	What's this?
SMYTHE	So you can see where you're going when you crawl up his asshole.

PETER	Seems George isn't making too many friends in lockup.
SMYTHE	Yeah, look at that sweet face.  You'd never guess he killed nine people.  I'm gonna get my smokes.  Be right back.
PETER	You're too old to smoke.  Won't be able to shoot hoops with your grandkid.

SMYTHE	What's the matter with you?
PETER	He's looking right at me.

PETER	He could see me.
SMYTHE	I'll quit, maybe you should start.

PETER	Thanks for handling this.
SMYTHE	Sure thing.  Look, I've got enough, between your preliminary statements and all the witness accounts.  You can go home.  Gimme til morning.  Find out who he is. Until then, don't sweat it, huh?  Just your random bad cheese trying to hole you.

PETER	Thanks again for everything.
SMYTHE	Hey, don't thank me.  Somebody up there likes you.

PETER	What's up?
SMYTHE	How're you doin' today?
PETER	It's another day.  I think I'm alright.
SMYTHE	You got the right attitude, anyway, look, we gotta talk.

PETER	She came to me with a wild story about demonic possession.
SMYTHE	She's got a juvenile record from New Orleans.  Parents died when she was 13.
PETER	Parents died?
SMYTHE	Yeah, murder-suicide.
PETER	What happened?
SMYTHE	Mother killed the father, then killed herself.  Crime of passion.
PETER	She told me she killed them.
SMYTHE	Not what the records show.  Anyway, she was a runaway, arrests for vandalism, petty theft, drugs, the whole bit. Parole records show she graduated from community college, moved into a retreat house, teaches some classes at the seminary school, hasn't been in any trouble since.

SMYTHE	We hauled her in earlier but didn't have anything hard to tie her to Townsend. Far as the priest goes, he won't be bothering you.  Suffered a complete mental breakdown, during - get this - during an exorcism.
PETER	Where is she now?
SMYTHE	Had to let her go.  I see you thinkin' there, superstar. Don't.

JEREMY	Hey, you can't...
SUSAN	What's your name?
JEREMY	Jeremy...
SUSAN	Okay, Jeremy...go get Dr. Chris Raymond, will you?
JEREMY	Lady...
SUSAN	Did you hear me?  Get Dr. Raymond! NOW!!

JOSH	The blintzes!  "Try the blintzes..."
PETER	Selling your sould for a fistful of carbohydrates...
JOSH	Not just any carbohydrates, mind you. It was like being on the receiving end of some kind of transcendent oral sex.  We should get a strobe on this thing. Maybe even a siren.
PETER	Yeah, and a loudspeaker so you can yell "Epidemic! Epidemic! You're all going to die!"

PETER	You really love flashing that thing, don't you?
JOSH	Hey. I'm a short guy. Waddaya want?

PETER	Internal hemorrage. 2 our of 5 have it.  No definite signs of TB, but we'll quarantine them a week just to make sure.
JOSH	Immigration's gonna love you for that.
PETER	Tell them to send flowers to the usual address.

PETER	Did they get the sleazebag who owns this place?
JOSH	Triad, Chinese Mafia. They bring people from Yunan. Slave labor...  Reverend Harry Wong, a preacher had the flophouse fronting for them. No sign of him.

PETER	There are thirty five listed in the reverend Wong's roster...
JOSH	Shit.

JOSH	Peter...
PETER	Yeah...?
JOSH	There's some weird shit here.
PETER	Weird shit...?
JOSH	Take a look.

LEONARD	You all watch your step.  We got some burrows goin' down seven stories here.  You fall, I don't wanna have to come pick you up.
JOSH	New York's finest.

JOSH	There's really people living down here?
LEONARD	Mole people. This section was pretty popular, all the way to Fulton Street...

LEONARD	Funny.  Shoulda seen some track bunnies by now.
JOSH	What?
LEONARD	Track bunnies.  Rats.  They're usually around.

LEONARD	Show that to the station manager.  Tell him Leonard's gonna have his bubble-butt he don't have someone down here in ten.
JOSH	H-how do I get...?
LEONARD	Way we came.  Take the first tunnel to your right...

LEONARD	Go left.  Go left again till you hit the fork... Then right again. You got that?
JOSH	I think so. One right, two lefts...
LEONARD	And a right.
JOSH	Right.

PETER	Look, I showed you my badge...
LEONARD	Yeah, and you gonna have to show me a lot bigger one you wanna go down there. That's the old maintenance grid, Doc. Swiss cheese: tunnels, tracks...
PETER	The Department of Public Health...
LEONARD	...should know better'n to go sneakin' around my turf...
PETER	Fine.  You want me to call your supervisor?
LEONARD	Please do.  He's a lonely guy.

PETER	Excuse me, I'm talking to you.
LEONARD	No, you talkin' at me.

PETER	For Chrissakes.  You gonna lay a two- bit bureaucratic, territorial number on me?
LEONARD	You wanna keep up the conversation, you best come back with the proper permits and the right attitude.

PETER	We'll be back at the platform in...
LEONARD	20 minutes. If you don't go sight-seeing anymore.
PETER	20 minutes.  Susan?

LEONARD	Did you see the size of that thing?!
PETER	Look what you did! You stupid sonofa-

LEONARD	Oh, that's gonna work.
PETER	You got a better way up?

PETER	Any luck?
LEONARD	Well...there's an old service elevator half a mile down the tracks.  Ain't gonna be much use, though.  Lines are dead.

PETER	You said those cables're still live. Can't we rewire...?
LEONARD	Oh, man, there you go again.
PETER	What?
LEONARD	Those things bring juice to the new stations.  You just can't rewire that shit...

PETER	For Chrissakes, what's the problem? You need a memo every time you fart?
LEONARD	All right, motherfucker, that's it.

LEONARD	I only got...
PETER	Just do it!

PETER	Wait a minute-
LEONARD	Fuck you, wait a minute. I'm going to-

PETER	Its muscles are locked.
LEONARD	Oh, Jesus!!

PETER	You feel anything?
LEONARD	Yeah, I feel like ripping your fucking eyes out...
PETER	Leonard, listen.  I need to see if there's any nerve damage before we carry you back.  Look, I'm trying to help you here...
LEONARD	Oh, you helped me here, all right, white boy.  You and your goddam memo. You needed to prove your point, uh?
PETER	I'm sorry.  But I don't think letting you bleed to death is the best apology.

PETER	A mistake.
LEONARD	Mistake?  What's that supposed to...?
PETER	It doesn't matter, all right?  It's dead.
LEONARD	How you know that?  Shit, it was runnin' around with its buttside gone and a fucking pipe through its heart...

PETER	Is there a switch?
LEONARD	Third rail is dead.  Get me up.  There must be a manual override in the booth.

PETER	Can we get this car there?
LEONARD	Someone'd have to go to the switchroom, pull the coupling lever, that'll send us left and to the elevator.

LEONARD	You gonna finally get to fuck around with the wires.  Think you can handle it?
PETER	Depends.  You got a memo?

LEONARD	The kid...
PETER	The kid's with them!!
LEONARD	What do you-?
PETER	Go!! Just go!!

MANNY	He's special.
LEONARD	He can imitate anything, you just watch him.

LEONARD	My God, what the hell are you...?
MANNY	Hurry, the woman needs help!

LEONARD	What are you doing down here?
MANNY	Chuy. He was taken. He's down here somewhere...  Oh, please, hurry. I saw what was after her.

LEONARD	You better tell me what the hell's going on here!
MANNY	Hey, hey!! Take it easy!!

LEONARD	The lights come up, you pull the switch.
MANNY	I pull.
LEONARD	You don't do that, we're on the wrong track.  You...

LEONARD	What's Manny doing? I can't see him anymore.
MANNY	Nino, please...

LEONARD	What are you putting that crap on me for?
SUSAN	Scent glands.  Insects use 'em to identify themselves to each other.

SUSAN	But the power...
LEONARD	Hell, I might be able to juice the whole area, if I can get to the power box. It's just a couple of cables...

LEONARD	It would take a minute or so.  You won't last that long out there.
SUSAN	Peter, you couldn't even fix our TV!

LEONARD	He didn't do it!
SUSAN	What?
LEONARD	Manny never threw the coupling switch!! We're goin' the wrong way!!!

SUSAN	Which way?
LEONARD	Across both tracks!!

SUSAN	We're no leaving you!
LEONARD	No way we can outrun 'em together. Move it!

SUSAN	Just inner chambers...
MANNY	But it look like a man. It... I saw it.
SUSAN	No...

SUSAN	Mantids can mimic. We gave the Judas that code...
MANNY	...and behold he will come that walks as a man, yet is not a man- ...
SUSAN	This, is our baby Peter. Yours and mine. Aren't you proud?

MANNY	He's out there. I heard him. How can he be? This things...
SUSAN	Manny...
MANNY	I didn't protect him, lady. He trusted me. And I didn't protect him... His father...I lost his father to the streets and now, Chuy...
SUSAN	We'll find him. We'll be back and find him.

PETER	A shame.  You looked great tonight.
SUSAN	Please.
PETER	You did!

SUSAN	Do you think we did the right thing?
PETER	Taking a cab instead of hiring a limo?
SUSAN	You know what I mean...

SUSAN	We did no impact evaluation.  The consequences of...
PETER	Is this a Catholic guilt thing...?

PETER	Who know?  We get lucky, maybe a couple of 'em'll be ours.
SUSAN	We're down to a "couple" now, huh?

PETER	You know where they get this fertility stuff?  They extract it from the urine of menopausal Italian nuns.
SUSAN	Monks bottle their own wine. Don't they?

SUSAN	You were the one who ran around with ice in his underwear, don't forget that.
PETER	Don't get kinky here...

PETER	Okay, meet me out front.  I gotta go. Josh's picking me up in five. see you tonight.
SUSAN	I'll be late.

PETER	Thought it was my week for that.
SUSAN	I needed to think. It was either this or the weather channel.

SUSAN	This thing was the size of my fist, Peter!! That's off the charts!
PETER	Okay. So you lost a great specimen-
SUSAN	Don't you get it? It's more than that.

SUSAN	Evolution doesn't work that fast. Something pushed that thing to take the leap. We need to find another specimen.
PETER	We?

SUSAN	Keep going. We'll tell you when to stop...
PETER	Maybe they lied to you.
SUSAN	Even if they did... that's all we have, isn't it?

SUSAN	Metaxonycha Godmani.
PETER	So?

PETER	Honey, just leave it.
SUSAN	No, there's...

PETER	You give someone a fucking uniform and... Did you hear how he talked to us?
SUSAN	I heard how you talked to him.
PETER	Oh, so I'm the bad guy now?

SUSAN	He was just doing his job.
PETER	Fine, then I'm the bad guy. Jesus!

PETER	Great crowd.
SUSAN	No such thing, baby.

SUSAN	I get the feeling they came more for the potroast than the apterids.
PETER	Fuck 'em.  They don't know what they're missing.
SUSAN	Right.

PETER	Oh, no, you were-
SUSAN	I was just late.

SUSAN	Ironic, don't you think?  These guys can hatch hundreds of offspring in a single clutch of eggs, right? And here we are...
PETER	Susan, we're not b-

SUSAN	...you don't even know what you're looking for.
PETER	You said that thing was big as your hand.  I don't think I'm going to miss...
SUSAN	Why take the chance?  Just let me go down there with you...
PETER	No.

PETER	Susan, listen to me:  you handled that insect almost as much as Siri...
SUSAN	It didn't bite me.
PETER	I know.  But if it was carrying something...there's a chance you could have been exposed.

SUSAN	It's me. Can you hear me?
PETER	Yeah, barely. We haven't found anything down here. Nothing...

SUSAN	Don't.
PETER	Listen to me:  we're getting you out.

SUSAN	No, Jesus, no.
PETER	Toss the flare down!

PETER	So, you're saying this is like those bugs that -- that look like twigs or leaves or...
SUSAN	That's camouflage...

SUSAN	His blood! It's driving them crazy! We have to mask the odor!
PETER	How?!

PETER	It's no use! They know we're in here!
SUSAN	They don't know anything Peter, they just sense. They're hardwired!
PETER	Right. Hardwired to eat anything that's not like them!

SUSAN	Rub it on the windows!
PETER	What-
SUSAN	Just do it!!

PETER	We'll cover ourselves with this. They can mimic us-  we Goddam mimic them!
SUSAN	Peter-
PETER	It worked before...
SUSAN	The scent won't last...
PETER	That's why we should do it now.

SUSAN	Don't touch it.  And for Godsakes, try not to sweat.  They can sense chemical changes...
PETER	Try not to sweat?

PETER	I was just thinking how I could use a pair of pliers... and I remembered where they are...
SUSAN	That's it. That's it. Breathe easy.

SUSAN	Oh, come on, come on!
PETER	Jump in.

PETER	You go first. I'll be right below you.
SUSAN	Your arm, you can't...
PETER	I can.  We can do this...

PETER	C'mon...
SUSAN	Ah...
PETER	Talk to me.
SUSAN	Peter...

SUSAN	No...
PETER	We can do it!

SUSAN	Hello.
RICKY	You the bug lady, right?

SUSAN	You guys have done a nice job.  How bout five dollars?
RICKY	That's it?

SUSAN	You sure you didn't see one of these?
RICKY	Gross. What is it?
SUSAN	An "Ootheca". An eggcase. It probably had more, uh "weirdbugs" inside.
RICKY	No way. I see one of those, I'd puke.

SUSAN	Siri, sandblast that thing. It looks like Trump Tower.  Those mounds are supposed to be made of dirt and excretions...
SIRI	Just like Trump Tower, then.

SUSAN	...as long as they're ready for the opening I don't care, just tell them that.
SIRI	I'm on it.  Don't worry.  Look, Susan...I don't mean to pry, but... I kinda overheard you and Peter.
SUSAN	Watch your step, Siri.  Your grant could be on the line here.
SIRI	I just...well, I had this cousin in Delhi.  She was having problems, too. She, ah...
SUSAN	What?
SIRI	She used a baster.

SIRI	Not a big one.  I mean, it was like a turkey baster.
SUSAN	Oh, Jesus.

SUSAN	What's this?
SIRI	Oh, right... They been here since noon. I told them you're real busy.

SUSAN	I'm gonna pull it out and I want you to pin it down, okay?
SIRI	What is it?
SUSAN	I have no idea.  Are you ready?

SUSAN	It bit you.
SIRI	No shit.

SUSAN	This wing configuration. I've never...
SIRI	Fuck! It broke the skin...
SUSAN	And they're not fully developed.  This thing's not even an adult.

SUSAN	My God.
SIRI	What?

SIRI	That's impossible.  Insects don't...
SUSAN	I know.  Help me get a sample.

ANNOUNCER	That's it folks for the Demon Boat Ride.... Everybody off. Watch your hands and feet.
MATTHEW	Where's the dock ?

ANNOUNCER	And now ladies and gentlemen it's time for the fabulous CROCODILE SHOW !
MATTHEW	Great ! You couldn't be a fan of Dolphins or some other less threatening animal.

ANNOUNCER	So many tubes to get in, only one is the way out.
MATTHEW	Great.. great. Is there any kind of hint or anything ?
ANNOUNCER	Pick with expediency !

ANNOUNCER	You must come in first place to move on !
MATTHEW	Jesus, my legs are asleep. I'll never be able to win this shit.

ZACH	Is that it ?
BRUCE	Yeah, I'd say that's it.

BRUCE	Doesn't it bother you to see this kind of brutal death ? I mean , I can understand the old man's infatuation with the stuff, but not you.
ZACH	I'm an investment banker. I see blood bathes everyday. Besides, mine is not to question why, min is but to do or die.
BRUCE	No one has a gun to your head.

BRUCE	Good morning. What do you have today ?
ZACH	I have an embezzler and his accomplice.

BRUCE	I'll do the standard research and have them in by midnight, pending any unforseen problems.
ZACH	Good. Nice to see you, Bruce. Johnny.

BRUCE	You have 43 unpaid parking tickets, sir. You have the right to remain silent, anything you say can & will be held.....
SAUNDRA	What's going on ?
BRUCE	Please don't be alarmed, Ma'am.

SAUNDRA	Where are we ?
BRUCE	No time. Get him up.

SAUNDRA	Why should we trust you ?
BRUCE	I made this place..... now listen to me. I'll get out of this room, we have bigger troubles than this....

SAUNDRA	What about Matt ?
BRUCE	Leave him, he's dead.
SAUNDRA	No !

SAUNDRA	Why don't you tell us what the fuck is going on ?
BRUCE	Why should I ?
SAUNDRA	You said we were criminals, what did you mean ?
BRUCE	You're both embezzling. I saw the records.
SAUNDRA	Embezzling ? I'm not embezzling !
BRUCE	Maybe not, but he is and fucking him makes you an accessory. He stole your passwords.
SAUNDRA	I'm not fucking him..

SAUNDRA	Now where do we go ?
BRUCE	I don't know.

SAUNDRA	How do we get out of this room ?
BRUCE	We wait. This is an elevator.

SAUNDRA	Now what the hell are we supposed to do ?
BRUCE	We have to climb up that.

BRUCE	There's enough force to push you twenty feet in the air. It won't kill you, but it will hurt.
SAUNDRA	You have issues. I mean you have some serious issues that need to be ironed out.

SAUNDRA	Come on, it works.
BRUCE	Give me a fucking.....

SAUNDRA	So where does this lead ?
BRUCE	No where. We've got about seven minutes before this thing slams into a concrete wall.
SAUNDRA	So what do we do ?
BRUCE	I'm working on it.
SAUNDRA	Who the hell are you anyway ? What is this place ?
BRUCE	It's called Murderland. It's paid for by First Bank.
SAUNDRA	First Bank ? But how ?
BRUCE	It's a tax write off for John C. McCay.
SAUNDRA	McCay knows ?
BRUCE	Knows ? He watches every "Guest" on tape. This whole place is here for his sick amusement. And no so are we.

BRUCE	What are you doing ?
SAUNDRA	I'm leaving.

BRUCE	Hey ! Hey ! I'm talking to you !
SAUNDRA	What ?
BRUCE	You took an awful big risk back there.
SAUNDRA	Look I don't even wanna know how I got in this mess. I just want out. It has nothing to do with me.
BRUCE	If you hadn't started boffing that weasel with an attitude, you wouldn't be here.
SAUNDRA	I'M NOT BOFFING MATTHEW !
BRUCE	Then you didn't give him any passwords of any kind ?
SAUNDRA	NO ! I wouldn't do that.
BRUCE	Then he isn't embezzling either is he ?
SAUNDRA	Why would he ? His parents are rich.

BRUCE	So you're telling me you were set up ? I knew something was wrong.
SAUNDRA	I'm not listening.
BRUCE	Hey ! I'm still your best chance to get out of here alive.
SAUNDRA	You've been doing a bang up job so far. Right now Matt is probably dead and it's your fault.

BRUCE	It won't take them that long to figure out we weren't on the train when it wrecked.
SAUNDRA	Not listening !
BRUCE	Look, there's another train. They'll send it through here. You're fucked if you don't STOP and listen to me.
SAUNDRA	I'm listening.
BRUCE	At the subway station, we can get into a power duct that my little shit head of an assistant doesn't know about.

SAUNDRA	What's the trick here ?
BRUCE	We drown.
SAUNDRA	Obviously, but what's the way out ?
BRUCE	Once the room depletes it's oxygen, we have about 30 seconds, then a door opens on the bottom over there. Then we swim out.
SAUNDRA	How long till the room fills ?
BRUCE	I'd say about thirty to forty minutes. Give or take a few.

SAUNDRA	So why this ?
BRUCE	Excuse me ?
SAUNDRA	Why did you build this whole place ?
BRUCE	Is this really the time ?
SAUNDRA	Do you have something better to talk about ?
BRUCE	I just graduated from M.I.T. in engineering. That's when John McCay hired me.
SAUNDRA	He hired you to build this place ?
BRUCE	I was hired in and started to do the boring old work routine. I was originally brought in as a technical advisor. First Bank had sponsored my scholarships.

BRUCE	I was lured by all the money and I truly did convince myself that what I did was for justice. Since then, McCay has wanted to put anyone he can down here.
SAUNDRA	But how do you know if the people are guilty ?
BRUCE	I do a very thorough background check. I go through police files, personel files, anything.
SAUNDRA	Then how come Matt and I showed up as guilty ?
BRUCE	It was there, clear as day. I saw the computer records. Matthew has been fed wiring money to his personal account.  I just knew something was wrong.
SAUNDRA	So you may have been duped this whole time. Killing innocent people, that must make you feel ..., how does it feel ?
BRUCE	There are other things too. They had everyone start taking those psych tests. Did they make you take one ?
SAUNDRA	Yeah, everyone has to when they get hired.
BRUCE	There's more to it than trying to see if you'd steal from the company or if you'd lie or cheat.
SAUNDRA	What do you mean ?
BRUCE	McCay had a lot money done into researching psychological reactions to questions that are seemingly unrelated, but reveal everything. Like criminal impulses, homicidal impulses.....

SAUNDRA	And you believe that ?
BRUCE	I've since changed my mind. I designed this place, based on my belief that I was doing what the legal system couldn't or wouldn't do. McCay had the company buy the property and they pay the bills. It's a tax write off. On the books everything looks kosher. I have an office on 5th that I haven't seen in ten years.
SAUNDRA	Doesn't anyone notice all the people missing ?
BRUCE	This is New York. No one notices anyone. Not even when someone disappears. At first it was the guy who was caught trying to steal McCay's Jag. Then it was dirty accountants that tried to walk away with millions. The Old Man got such a rush from it, I thought that he would start trying to send me people who used the copier after hours.
SAUNDRA	How can you just take a life ? I mean it's a life, life is so precious.  How does it feel ?
BRUCE	What do you do with the company, if I might ask ?
SAUNDRA	I'm in charge of the conversions.  When First Bank buys another smaller bank, I'm in charge of converting them to our systems and way of doing things.

SAUNDRA	I... I .....
BRUCE	You didn't think about it did you ? I read your file. It said you had a nervous breakdown.
SAUNDRA	I wanted to let his family know....
BRUCE	Know what ? That it was your fault ?
SAUNDRA	It wasn't my fault. I was just part of a team. I was doing my job...
BRUCE	So was I. So don't give me any shit. Your business is just as bad. At least I'm up front about it. You kill people slowly. Your corporate take overs can decimate a families livelihood over a year sometimes two. Now you know how it feels.

BRUCE	Just remember, hold your breath as long as you can. Then go right over to that corner. The door will open and go in and up.
SAUNDRA	Okay.

SAUNDRA	You okay ?
BRUCE	Fine...

BRUCE	If we can get to through the next room, we'll be at a junction for a power grid.
SAUNDRA	Let's go.

SAUNDRA	This is cute.
BRUCE	Yeah, real cute. The storm is fake, but the lightening is real.
SAUNDRA	Okay Mr Inventor, how do we avoid it ?
BRUCE	You don't. It's random, there no trick.
SAUNDRA	Great...

SAUNDRA	Where are we going ?
BRUCE	The Brooklyn Bridge.

SAUNDRA	I don't get it.
BRUCE	It's poison gas, this is the antidote. Drink it.

SAUNDRA	Do you know where you're going ?
BRUCE	Yes.

SAUNDRA	What was that ?
BRUCE	Girder, watch your head.

SAUNDRA	What about you ?
BRUCE	There's one more person here for me to visit.

SAUNDRA	Just stop it. End it here.
BRUCE	It'll end. It'll end with him and McCay. Then the park shuts down. Permanently.

SAUNDRA	What are you DOING here ?
BRUCE	I work here, remember ?
SAUNDRA	That was eleven years ago.
BRUCE	Well, surprise, surprise, I've been on the payroll for several years now. I still have an office and secretary. No one even batted an eyelash. Do you realize what the high turnover is in a multi corporation bank in New York ?
SAUNDRA	Apparently pretty high, we just got a new CEO last week.
BRUCE	That's a shame.
SAUNDRA	Yeah a real shame.
BRUCE	Well, I'll see you at the next staff party.
SAUNDRA	Bye....

BRUCE	Are you Matthew Parker ?
MATTHEW	Yes, can I help you ? Maybe a donut or something ?
BRUCE	That's very funny, sir. You are under arrest.
MATTHEW	Hey , Hey !

MATTHEW	Kojak here is arresting me for unpaid parking tickets.
BRUCE	43 unpaid parking tickets, sir.

BRUCE	NO. Don't. You'll get a shock from hell if you touch that seat.
MATTHEW	Who are you anyway ? What the hell is this ?
BRUCE	Just shut the fuck up.

MATTHEW	OUCH !!! GODDAMMIT that hurts !!!!
BRUCE	I told him not to sit down in there.....

BRUCE	NO ! Don't open ANY of them ! They're all wrong. Just wait.
MATTHEW	Wait for what ? i don't wanna alarm you but we'll be the special at the International House of Pancakes in about five minutes !
BRUCE	Trust me, if you open any door, you'll be dead a whole lot sooner.

MATTHEW	Okay, NOW I'm worried. What exactly is on the other side of the door ?
BRUCE	Either you'll be shot with bullets, impaled with a large spike, or nailed like a super model. Basically you're fucked any way you go.
MATTHEW	And that's different than this because...... ?

MATTHEW	Hey buddy, thanks for the help back there !
BRUCE	I don't help criminals.

BRUCE	Give me one good reason why I don't plug you right here, right now ? 
MATTHEW	Because of my charming personality ?

MATTHEW	Is it over ?
BRUCE	Not quite....

MATTHEW	That's nice.  I think I lost my wallet.
BRUCE	I'd get out of the water if I were you.
MATTHEW	Why ?

MATTHEW	I thought you made this place ?
BRUCE	I did, but this room has four exits and only one opens, it's up to them in the control room. There's one right over there. The exit light is on, but he can change it.

MATTHEW	What's next Walt ?
BRUCE	A dragon.
MATTHEW	So what happened ? Did you have a real bad theme park experience as a kid and this is your revenge ?

BRUCE	Be very, very quiet...
MATTHEW	Are you hunting wabbits ?

BRUCE	The room has sound sensors. If you wake it up, it breathes fire.
MATTHEW	You were one of those guys that played Dungeons & Dragons with real swords, weren't you.

MATTHEW	An elevator ?
BRUCE	Yeah, we're about a hundred an fifty feet below the subway stations. We're heading a little higher up now.

BRUCE	It's fine thanks.
MATTHEW	Why don't you tell us a little about yourself ?
BRUCE	Look pipsqueak, I'm having a real bad day here and we're just starting.

MATTHEW	That's not to tough.
BRUCE	Look...

MATTHEW	Issues ??? This guy has the damn subscription to every psychotic issue I've ever heard of.
BRUCE	That's cute asshole.

MATTHEW	Hey, try swimming. It works.
BRUCE	What the fuck are you talking about.
MATTHEW	Swimming, you know, like in water, moron.

MATTHEW	You okay ?
BRUCE	Ow...

MATTHEW	This probably isn't the bet time, but I really have to pee. Can I pee ?
BRUCE	Knock yourself out.
MATTHEW	Thanks...

MATTHEW	Is it over ?
BRUCE	Almost. Look, you two get out of here.
MATTHEW	Where ?
BRUCE	In the jail cell is a spiral staircase. It leads to the surface. Take it all the way up.

BRUCE	He's the liaison for McCay. Listen go. Go now.
MATTHEW	Don't have to tell me twice.

JOHNNY	I didn't think he'd make it past Scraps.
BRUCE	Let's just see if he can make it into round two....

BRUCE	Don't.
JOHNNY	What ?
BRUCE	Don't eat at the console.
JOHNNY	What ? Are you my mother ?
BRUCE	It's my control board and I don't want it acting squirrelly because you dropped a few crumbs into the keyboard, no put the shit away.
JOHNNY	Yes, sir Mom. 

BRUCE	Never underestimate a man who cheats on his taxes. His file says he is an avid jogger.
JOHNNY	You've got to be kidding me ! His lazy ass couldn't win the special Olympics.

JOHNNY	He'll never get it right. Try the Log Ride !
BRUCE	Not yet.
JOHNNY	But, he's...
BRUCE	I said NO.

BRUCE	Stop the hydraulics.
JOHNNY	Got it.

BRUCE	Johnny, let's get the cleanup started.
JOHNNY	You've got it boss. One more mangled body to the East River, coming up !

BRUCE	Hand me the 3/8ths.
JOHNNY	Here. Am I ever going to get to run the controls for one these capers ?
BRUCE	When I think you're ready.
JOHNNY	When will that be ?
BRUCE	When you are ready.
JOHNNY	Look, you're going to have to start trusting me sometime. I am a trustworthy person.
BRUCE	Trust is earned not given away.
JOHNNY	RESPECT is earned not given away, trust is given away to anybody.
BRUCE	Not down here. I'll start trusting you when I feel there the time is right. It's not personal, it's just survival.
JOHNNY	I've been working with you for four years, don't you think that's worthy of at least one turn at the controls ?
BRUCE	No.

JOHNNY	I made my bones on the street, you know. I did Riglioni in his own house. I was made in the Family, okay.
BRUCE	And who bailed you out when a hit was put on you, you sorry sack of shit. Who put you up ? Who gave you a job ?
JOHNNY	You did.
BRUCE	That's right. Now who needs to trust who ? Trust me, when you're ready to work the controls, I'll put you in the hot seat.

JOHNNY	What's wrong ?
BRUCE	I just want to double check the facts.

BRUCE	I see here that this guy has made deposits into his own account for the last four months. Each one in the amount of $100,000. He then puts in deposits into his girlfriends account.
JOHNNY	So ?
BRUCE	He already had a balance of $600,000.
JOHNNY	He probably has a history of this shit.
BRUCE	Yeah, maybe.... Let's start the background checks. Let's see where they live and what kind of security systems....
JOHNNY	Matthew lives on the Upper West Side, kinda posh for a temp don't you think ?
BRUCE	Any priors ? Any police record ?
JOHNNY	Checking..... Hah ! He has a shit load of unpaid parking tickets...
BRUCE	Parking tickets ? That's it ?
JOHNNY	Yeah, but we're talking 43.
BRUCE	A real criminal.... I still think that's our in... What about her ?
JOHNNY	Checking........

JOHNNY	Why don't you just stop fucking around and just die !
BRUCE	I'm sick of playing. I've got a better idea.

JOHNNY	You think I'm that easy, Bitch ?
BRUCE	For once in your life, shut the fuck up.

FRED THOMISON	Well ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Fire the whole division.
FRED THOMISON	Excuse me, sir ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Fire the whole division. We're moving more of the operations division into Manhattan anyway. Whoever is left over from the conversion is no longer needed. We already have all the key people here. Anyone else is expendable.
FRED THOMISON	Sir, I came from the Chicago offices myself, and if I may say, sir, there are still some very good....
JOHN C. MCCAY	If you want, I can fire you and have someone else who has the balls terminate these worthless people. Which will it be ?
FRED THOMISON	We will start work on it now sir.

JOHN C. MCCAY	Zachory ! My boy, how goes the carnage down on 44 ?
ZACH	Not that well sir. I believe we have a few too many soft hearts in the building. Did we aquire a bank from Chicago or a charity ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Relax, son. They'll learn in time that you don't fuck with First Bank. This is the real deal and we aim to keep it strong. My Daddy always told me that Only The Strong Survive.
ZACH	I thought that was Darwin, sir. Or perhaps Nietzsche ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Perhaps it was. I was in boarding school for so many years, it's hard to remember. Do you have the tape of the latest exploits from my favorite hobby ?
ZACH	Yes sir, I do. Last night's, fresh from the Park.
JOHN C. MCCAY	I have to say, that I am glad you are such an amazing kiss ass.
ZACH	Thank you , sir. Sir, may I ask you a question ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Of course.
ZACH	While I am not morally against these little, shall we say "hobbies", as long as I am on the payroll, but why not something like a yacht club ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Zach, how old are you, son ?
ZACH	I am thirty two.
JOHN C. MCCAY	And how much do we pay you annually ?
ZACH	I make roughly four hundred thousand a year.
JOHN C. MCCAY	Zach my boy, I can spend your yearly salary in a blink. I have had that kind of money all of my life. If I wanted to, I could fly to Paris for the afternoon.  My father formed this company over seventy years ago. When my brother became mentally challenged, it was put in my charge. Now running a bank of this size is very stressful. I need to relax on what little down time I have. A yacht club will not quite make my blood pressure decline. Understand ?
ZACH	Yes sir.
JOHN C. MCCAY	I have entrusted you with a great many things. In your tenure with this company you have seen and heard things that could upset the very economic world in which we live. I think this kind of loyalty should be rewarded.
ZACH	Thank you, sir.

ZACH	Thank you, sir. I was really hoping for shares, or possibly cash... but this, this is really personal.
JOHN C. MCCAY	Son, let's watch the tape.

JOHN C. MCCAY	That was rather.... disappointing.
ZACH	I had suggested that they tone down the program so that the "guests" might take longer to expire.
JOHN C. MCCAY	I want more action. I want to see more ingenuity than that. I want to see the injured man out wit the machines !
ZACH	But sir, most of the people we are putting into the "Park" are accountants that embezzle or investment bankers. They are not known for their physical or intellectual prowess.
JOHN C. MCCAY	I don't believe Ol' Bruce is having as much fun with this as he once did. He still insists on the "guests" being of the more nefarious type.
ZACH	That's right, sir. He does a thorough background check and if he finds them to be criminal or guilty of embezzlement, then he will put them in the park. He has refused the last three suggested "guests".
JOHN C. MCCAY	What about that time when the mail room kid was accused of stealing and we put him in the "Park" ? Wasn't that a computer glitch ?
ZACH	Yes sir. It turns out we put an innocent man into the "park" and he was not the one who stole from the stamp machine. That is also about the time when Bruce began refusing.
JOHN C. MCCAY	That mail room kid was the longest lasting "guest" yet ! Maybe we can alter the computer records and make another "guest" from the more athletic of our staff.
ZACH	Bruce may still refuse. It is my belief that he is becoming more belligerent.

JOHN C. MCCAY	I propose we consider a hostile take over. Perhaps Ol' Bruce is in need of a new job opportunity.
ZACH	What do you mean sir ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	What if we were to put Bruce into the Park as a Guest ?
ZACH	Sir ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	I'll bet that would be the Park run of the century !
ZACH	Sir, he created the Park. He would know how to circumvent any of the traps.
JOHN C. MCCAY	I'm willing to bet that even the creator can't out wit his creation.
ZACH	What then sir ? What would we do with the park with out Bruce ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Do you think the assistant, what's his name...
ZACH	John, sir.
JOHN C. MCCAY	Yes, do you think he would like a raise and a new position ?
ZACH	Sir, this is not like firing any employee. We can't predict what will happen.
JOHN C. MCCAY	That my boy, is the best part. Life on top of the world is boring... predictable. If I wanted life without chances, I never would have paid for Murderland. Now go. Make a formal proposal and see about the assistant. Find out if it's viable.

ZACH	Zachary.
JOHN C. MCCAY	Zach, my boy ! How is tonights adventure going ?
ZACH	Good, sir.

JOHN C. MCCAY	Is it as good as I hope it is ?
ZACH	Better, sir.

JOHN C. MCCAY	One moment dear... 
ZACH	Sir ?
JOHN C. MCCAY	Not you Zach.  Remember, my wife is asleep upstairs, dear.  Zach, am I gonna like what I see on this tape ? Is it the grandest of all the Park's tapes ?

ZACH	Yes sir. It will be the best of your collection, I assure you.
JOHN C. MCCAY	Fantastic ! A little faster sweetheart.
ZACH	Sir ? We're moving them right along as fast as we can.
JOHN C. MCCAY	Have that tape on my desk tomorrow morning.  First.... thing...

JOHNNY	He has a phone pole sticking in his chest, I think we don't need an autopsy.
ZACH	I'm just looking for our best interests. May I have the tapes, Bruce ?

JOHNNY	Hey, Mr. Executive. Buy you a drink sailor ?
ZACH	We have new "guests" for the park. I have a file on them. May I see Bruce ?
JOHNNY	He's been expecting you.

ZACH	No. I was just curious if what I heard about you is true ?
JOHNNY	What did you hear ?
ZACH	Only that you were one of the finest hit men in the mob. That if you wanted a good clean kill, that Johnny Tortelli was the man for the job.
JOHNNY	I was.
ZACH	Might I ask why you no longer work for the mob ?
JOHNNY	There was a bit of confusion on one of my last jobs.
ZACH	I thought, and correct me if I'm wrong, but weren't you trying to play both sides ?
JOHNNY	What are you looking for ? A blow job ?
ZACH	No. I am not a homosexual.
JOHNNY	Then what do you want ?
ZACH	Have you ever considered running your own "Park" ? I mean, since you will not be returning to your former profession.
JOHNNY	I didn't think even this company could afford to write off enough to build a new "Park".
ZACH	We can't.

ZACH	Are you happy with your salary and position ?
JOHNNY	No I am not.
ZACH	I had hoped you would say that. I have a proposal for you.....
JOHNNY	I'm listening.

JOHNNY	So who are these people with the Boss ?
ZACH	Just a temp who pissed me off and a girl who turned me down for the night of her life.
JOHNNY	Aren't you the bitter one.

ZACH	How long till the drug wears off ?
JOHNNY	We should have another fifteen minutes at least.
ZACH	Bruce has just awaken.
JOHNNY	What ?????

ZACH	What is Bruce doing ?
JOHNNY	I don't know.....

ZACH	What was that ?
JOHNNY	He must have had a gun stashed. God damn it !
ZACH	We can't afford too many surprises.
JOHNNY	He'll never make it out of the park alive. I promise you that....

ZACH	Will he make it out ?
JOHNNY	Of course, this one's a gimme. Just be patient, even Ol' Bruce can't outwit some of these traps.

ZACH	What's next ?
JOHNNY	I have a turn for the worse for the team !
ZACH	I do believe Mr. McCray will be most pleased with the tape of this one.

JOHNNY	I've got five bucks that says someone dies here and now.
ZACH	I'll see that bet.

ZACH	Aren't you going to switch exits on him again ?
JOHNNY	Why ? The crocks are all going for the dead crock. There's no fun in it. Besides we've got plenty more for them. The night is young....

JOHNNY	Maybe you should get over fears.
ZACH	Well, Mr. Parker it seems that your is not the wardrobe of choice tonight. I'm quite confident that my tie is looking better than yours.

JOHNNY	Look he figured it out !
ZACH	I can see your small business ! Look at it it's so small.

ZACH	Look ! Look !
JOHNNY	Shit, I forgot about them. Well, I guess the boss man wasn't as tough as I thought.
ZACH	I don't know. Maybe we should watch the tape to be sure.
JOHNNY	You're paying the bills.

JOHNNY	Was that the Old Man ?
ZACH	Yes. I think he's feeling sick or something.

ZACH	There ! There ! Did you see ! They're still alive !
JOHNNY	I can see that but where ?

ZACH	That is repugnant. You have the habits of a goat.
JOHNNY	<<belch>>
ZACH	Ach ! How will you know if they've made it ?
JOHNNY	The room will fill to the top, then if they wind up in the next room, they lived, if not, they're dead.

ZACH	Thank you very much.
JOHNNY	Goddamn it Bruce, you've cost me about thirty dollars so far.

ZACH	Okay, I have five that says THIS is it for them.
JOHNNY	I think I'll see hat action.

ZACH	So what's next ? No one's ever made it this far before.
JOHNNY	He's got two chices.either it's the Bowling Alley from Hell or Alice in Murderland. See this ? Even Bruce knows that no one can make it out of here in one piece.

JOHNNY	What the ... ?
ZACH	What happened ?
JOHNNY	The power went out in half the park.
ZACH	How can this happen ?
JOHNNY	I don't know. I think that a power grid just needs reset. Don't get your panties in a bunch. I'll go down and reset it.
ZACH	Go in there ? What if Bruce finds you ?
JOHNNY	Yeah, right. He's stuck all the way over here

MATTHEW	Good golly miss molly you are looking good today !
SAUNDRA	Thank you.
MATTHEW	I meant him.

MATTHEW	Just look at this tie. You could fry an egg off that orange, yow. Have you ever considered the Jerry Garcia line of ties ?
SAUNDRA	Excuse me, gentlemen

MATTHEW	Come on, I'm serious. Look at Wilma. She's this frail little thing, and Fred, I mean Fred Flintstone is this BIG guy. He has to be hung like a horse, and THAT's why Wilma puts up with his B.S.
SAUNDRA	I've never heard the Flintstones reduced to a sexual exploitation quite like that. You're funny.

MATTHEW	Listen, I was thinking, you know. Would you go, it's I think you're...
SAUNDRA	Do you want to go out with me ?
MATTHEW	It's sounds so much better when you say it. I'm semi traditional here, and it's important that I ask. Will you go out with me ?
SAUNDRA	Yes.
MATTHEW	Really ? On a date ?
SAUNDRA	Yes.
MATTHEW	This is too easy, I mean I had a speech prepared, then I even wore these pants because I could get on my knees to grovel.
SAUNDRA	As appealing as that sounds...
MATTHEW	Dinner at my place then ? Say, seven o'clock ?
SAUNDRA	Sure.

MATTHEW	Hello.
SAUNDRA	Hi. I brought some wine.
MATTHEW	Thank you, won't you come in ?
SAUNDRA	Thanks.

SAUNDRA	What an incredible view !
MATTHEW	Thank you.

SAUNDRA	Are you okay ?
MATTHEW	Yes, Excuse me for a second.
SAUNDRA	You have a real nice place... how can you afford this working as a temp ?

MATTHEW	Well, I make good investments, I lead a double life as a secret agent.. I....I ... I have very rich parents. I have always had a lot of money.
SAUNDRA	If they're so rich, why are you working at all ?
MATTHEW	I just want to have something that's mine, you know ? It's like living off of their money is fun and all. There are certain materialistic needs that I have that can only be satisfied with that extra little scratch.
SAUNDRA	Like what, a Porsche ? A Ferrari ?
MATTHEW	Would that impress you ? I mean you're the kinda woman that probably has Ferrari written all over your personal ad.
SAUNDRA	Actually, I'm more interested in the man behind the wheel more than the manufacturer. So what is it that you have that makes you a materialistic fool ?
MATTHEW	My own sit down Star Wars arcade game. Wanna play it ?

MATTHEW	Okay, now go under go under it ! Shoot Vader's Tie Fighter ! Get Him Get Him !
SAUNDRA	Yahoo !!!!!

MATTHEW	Not now, Mom.
SAUNDRA	Wake up, we're in trouble.

MATTHEW	Hey... did we uhm, you know....
SAUNDRA	No ! Just get up. This is serious.

SAUNDRA	Hey, you ! What the hell is going on ?
MATTHEW	What the hell kind of cop are you ?

SAUNDRA	I think we should follow him...
MATTHEW	I just need to sit and think for a second.

SAUNDRA	Are you okay ?
MATTHEW	Fine, fine, I feel like a chicken McNugget.

MATTHEW	The roof is coming down.... hey, you.... Which door gets us out of here ??
SAUNDRA	Which one, this door is locked !

SAUNDRA	I'm talking to you asshole !
MATTHEW	Maybe all that testosterone plugs his ears.

MATTHEW	You don't have to sound so emphatic.
SAUNDRA	We just having our first date when you showed up.

SAUNDRA	How's your foot ?
MATTHEW	How's your foot ? This guy tried to kill us and he put us in this place, and you want to know how his foot is ?

MATTHEW	Jesus Christ ! I'm just a temp for Christ sakes !
SAUNDRA	Shut up ! It's me.
MATTHEW	I think I'm very quickly getting over my phobia of public urination.
SAUNDRA	What ?
MATTHEW	Nothing.

MATTHEW	It's that asshole Zach isn't it ?
SAUNDRA	Zach from work ?

MATTHEW	Are you okay ? Any holes ? I mean aside from the one's that nature gave you ?
SAUNDRA	I'm fine.

SAUNDRA	Hey Matty, don't wait for me or anything.
MATTHEW	I was thinking maybe we should try this dinner thing again, but maybe the Epcot version will be open by then....

MATTHEW	Sweet Jesus I never dreamed I'd be glad to see Central Park at night.
SAUNDRA	We made it !

SAUNDRA	What now ?
MATTHEW	I want to go to sleep for about a month.
SAUNDRA	No, idiot. Where do we go now ?
MATTHEW	Where are we ?

MATTHEW	Thanks a lot. I always wanted to know what it was like to see my life flash before my eyes for the one hundredth time tonight.
SAUNDRA	Come to the rescue again I see.

SAUNDRA	He was right behind me !
MATTHEW	Who was that guy anyway ?

MATTHEW	Hey good lookin' ! What'cha got cookin' ?
SAUNDRA	Hey buddy. You okay ?
MATTHEW	Of course I am. I feel the testosterone coursing through my veins.  Now that I've gotten the stitches removed from my arm and the chiropractor fixed my back.

MATTHEW	Ow. Son of a .....  Did I ever tell you my theory on Star Wars as Porn ?
SAUNDRA	No.
MATTHEW	Well, I think if you take several lines out of context, Star Wars becomes a very sexual movie. I mean listen to this.  "Luke, at that speed will you be able to pull out in time ?" or "You came in that thing ? You're braver than I thought".

MATTHEW	No sir. I was just getting , well you know. Water. We weren't talking about sex or anything else except Star Wars. Just saying hello. I think I'm gonna go now.
SAUNDRA	Why don't you shut up now.
MATTHEW	I'm going to go ahead and go now.

ZACH	Good morning.
SAUNDRA	Good morning.
ZACH	Did you see what the First Bank stock opened at ? Very impressive.
SAUNDRA	Actually it's down .2 from the last quarters highest, but I think it will pick up.
ZACH	I am equally impressed with your knowledge of the market. How long have you been with the company now ?
SAUNDRA	Four years. I came over from the Capitol merger in Chicago six months ago.
ZACH	Were you involved in the incident where that guy killed himself in his office ?  I am sorry. Perhaps we should have dinner tonight to.... discuss your future.

ZACH	We start with the top and work our way down. We start with the high salaries and then just let the little people go. No need to make the blue collars go crazy.
SAUNDRA	I disagree. I think we should start looking into the severance pay schedules and make sure the people with families can.....
ZACH	Look, Miss. I know you're still upset about that incident in Chicago, but understand, this is a cut throat business. We don't have time to play nursemaid to every single Tom Dick and Harry.
SAUNDRA	Maybe we should make the time. Especially considering the sixteen million dollars we have set aside expressly to settle law suits from these very events.

ALFRED	You had to remind me?
VADA	Are you writing a poem?
ALFRED	No, I'm writing to the phone company because they keep charging me for calls to Caracas, Venezuela...do you know any know anybody in Caracas, Venezuela?

VADA	Umm, where do you want this?
ALFRED	Oh, just put it over there.

VADA	Do you still teach?
ALFRED	No, no, no, I gave it up ten years ago...actually it gave me up.

VADA	My mother took this course with you at UCLA...&quot;The Foundations of Poetic Thought&quot;.
ALFRED	UCLA? My cardigan sweater period.
VADA	Her name was Maggie Muldovan.
ALFRED	Ohhhhh.

VADA	People said she looked like me.
ALFRED	I was drinking a little in those days.  I'm drinking a little these days too.
VADA	I'm sure she found your lectures fascinating.
ALFRED	Oh I doubt it...lectures are notoriously boring.
VADA	No they're not. I wanna be a writer, I wanna be just like you.
ALFRED	Humph, meee?? My dear, this is not a country that rewards poetry, this is a country that rewards gas mileage, besides, people don't read poetry anymore, they watch television. Don't be a poet, be a TV repairman.

BOY	Excuse me I asked you a question.
VADA	I'm not supposed to talk to strangers, not even nuns.
BOY	You're Vada right?

VADA	How did you know my name?
BOY	Your Uncle Phil told me.
VADA	Where is he?? He was supposed to meet me.
BOY	Hey relax, you think I kidnapped him or something?
VADA	This is California, anything is possible.
BOY	Well if I was looking for a victim, I definitely wouldn't pick your Uncle Phil who outweighs me by about 150 pounds, besides, who would I ask for ransom? You??
VADA	Are you suffering from a chemical imbalance or is it just an attitude problem.
BOY	My only problem is that your Uncle Phil is giving me five bucks to pick you up but I don't get paid 'till delivery.
VADA	Gee, that is a problem.

VADA	Put that down, I'll...I'll call the police!
BOY	What are you gonna do? Tell them that...a polite person helped carry your bag?
VADA	I don't think you're very polite.
BOY	Yeah, well I don't think you're very grateful. A lot of people in your position would say &quot;thank you&quot;.

VADA	THANK YOU.
BOY	Don't mention it.
VADA	I don't even know your name.

NICK	What kind of sleazoid geek would turn her in?
DARYL	I would do it again in a minute.

DARYL	Well maybe you should join a hippie commune. But let me tell you something. Sooner or later it's gonna be your turn to take out the garbage.
NICK	What about giving the other guy a break.
DARYL	What about living in the real world pal?

NICK	Give us a break. All you have to do is make a phone call.
DARYL	I thought I told you to lose this guy.
NICK	Look, sergeant I know I said some things last time that I shouldn't have said at all but...
DARYL	I think the phrase was &quot;Sleazoid Geek&quot;.
NICK	I'm sorry okay...we gotta find this guy because...he knew Vada's mom and he could tell her stuff that no one else knows.
DARYL	You're still asking me to break the law.

NICK	So charge him with something...who's gonna know?
DARYL	Me, I'll know!

DARYL	It's too bad about your mom. At least she went peacefully, I've seen a lot of people go out the hard way.
VADA	What do you remember about her.
DARYL	Well, we worked on the school paper together. I remember when the Legion of Decency declared Rebel without a Cause unfit...boy...that Jim Backers, what an actor uh? What an actor.

VADA	Wow, you walked out with my mother?
DARYL	You kidding? he picks up a picture and shows Vada and Nick

DARYL	She was the uhh...first girl ever suspended for smoking.
VADA	Suspended from school, my mother??
DARYL	Everyone was really surprised when Maggie was turned in, she got kicked out for two weeks.

DARYL	I'm not authorized to trace licenses for civilians.
VADA	His name is Jeffrey Pommeroy and he used to drive a 54 Ford pickup, black with red interior. Please?

DARYL	Yeah, this is Sergeant Tanaka from Holenbeck, I need a current address for a Jeffrey....
VADA	Pommeroy.
DARYL	Pommeroy...he may or may not be driving a black 54 Ford Pickup.  Monday.
VADA	I'm leaving Sunday.
DARYL	Could you hold on for a second? 

VADA	Do you wanna be a hall monitor all your life?
DARYL	Hello, I'm gonna need this right now...this guy...well we think he might be going after the governor.  Twenty minutes? Fine.

HARRY	Vada, try to scrunch these chairs together a little more.
VADA	Dad, I'm trying.  The chairs, they won't scrunch.

HARRY	I got a card from your Uncle Phil in Los Angeles today, said he went body surfing.
VADA	I don't know if I can picture Uncle Phil body surfing.

VADA	Do what?
HARRY	Well the thing is your room is right next door to ours, and so we thought, well, I thought, if you were willing we might move you to Grammoo's room, and use your old room for the nursery. See we're gonna be up half the night with a newborn and there'll be a lot of noise....
VADA	You want me to move?
HARRY	Well not far, just down the hall. Plus Grammoo's room's a lot bigger, and you get a view of the whole neighborhood.

VADA	Okay, no problem.
HARRY	Okay thanks, atta girl.

VADA	Visualize a spare?
HARRY	Well you know what I mean.
VADA	So, what's on your mind?
HARRY	Me? What makes you think there's something on my mind?
VADA	You're passing up Archie Bunker to go bowling, you've gotta have an angle.
HARRY	No, I just thought it'd be nice if the two of us had an evening out so we could... talk.

VADA	Shelly's already told me all about sex.
HARRY	She told me too, I mean, she told me she told you about sex, I personally new about sex long before I met Shelly.
VADA	I figured you did.

HARRY	Ahh, strike, not, not bad at all. No, this talk isn't about sex, it's, well there've been a lot of changes, and I know you're upset about losing your room, but the baby's gotta go somewhere.
VADA	No it's okay, I understand, really.
HARRY	Honey that's very mature, I'm proud of you Vada.

VADA	Maybe I should just move to China. One kid per family, that way you don't lose your room.
HARRY	Hey, why don't you just keep your room and we'll put the baby in the back yard.
VADA	Don't do that, you've got the whole garage.
HARRY	Oh yeah, right-between the power mower and the weed killer.
VADA	Dad I'm kidding, you can have the room.
HARRY	Seriously?
VADA	Seriously.
HARRY	Great.

VADA	Dad, when a boy likes you, does he pretend that he doesn't like you? And if he pretends that he doesn't like you how can you tell that he likes you?
HARRY	What boy likes you?
VADA	It's just a question, it's not about anybody.

VADA	So you're saying...What are you saying??
HARRY	Honey, ahh, guys don't wanna appear over anxious, so if you think there's a boy that might like you, let him know that you like him, so he won't feel he's taking such a risk when he's thinking of asking you out.

VADA	The Collected Works of Alfred Biedermeyer
HARRY	Her favorite poet.

VADA	There's still a big spot on the floor.
HARRY	Okay, we need wallpaper paste.  Hey Cece!
VADA	Oh, is there anything else you remember, how did you propose? Was it romantic?
HARRY	Well, I kinda just blurted it out over a root beer float.

HARRY	She was talented, but honey I wish I could help you a little more, it's just that your mother and I had kind of a whirlwind courtship, she came to town with this traveling theater group, I proposed on our second date, two weeks later we were married and almost nine months later you were here and she was gone.
VADA	Was it a nice funeral?
HARRY	Oh yes, lovely funeral, Gernaldi brothers did a beautiful job, lots of pink roses...I used the white hearse. Hey, how about this flowered wallpaper for your room?

VADA	You were just having a fight about me. Wouldn't you like to hear my opinion?
HARRY	Of course.
VADA	I think that if I'm old enough to accept a new baby, and if I'm old enough to accept a new room, I'm old enough to go to California.
HARRY	Honey I know it's fun to think about these things but....
VADA	I already bought a ticket.
HARRY	What??
VADA	I used my own money and got a great deal, it's a Q47NR five day fare, which means that I have to change planes in Dallas and stay over a Saturday.

VADA	No nuns, got it.
HARRY	And no boys, promise me, oh those LA people are all so corrupt you'll end up pregnant and on drugs...and don't come running to me when you wake up in the city morgue with a tag on your toe having been beaten up into an unrecognizable pulp by some surfer...and DON'T make eye contact, it communicates an implied vulnerability.

VADA	What does that mean?
HARRY	It means...I'm a paranoid nitwit who's never let his baby girl out of his sight for the simple reason he's a paranoid nitwit. So why don't you just say &quot;Oh Dad&quot; and get on the damn plane already?

VADA	Bye Dad, I'll miss you.
HARRY	Thanks, I needed that.
VADA	I'll be back in 137 hours.
HARRY	Have fun.

HARRY	Hello? Sultenfuss Parlor.
VADA	Hi Dad.
HARRY	Hi honey.
VADA	I just called to say that I'm having a really great time.
HARRY	Good! You should go over and watch some Ted Carson.
VADA	Actually, I wanna see Jeffrey Pommeroy.

VADA	Yeah.
HARRY	Totally groovy huh?
VADA	Totally.
HARRY	Ask him if he needs a good tuba player.
VADA	I will. How's Shelly?
HARRY	Oh she's fine...ahh...umm the doctor just...ehh...told her to stay in bed and get a little rest and...'n stay quiet...just...just to make sure that...
VADA	Okay...bye daddy, I love you.
HARRY	I love you too sweetie, bye.
VADA	Give my love to Shelly.

VADA	What happened to Shelly?
HARRY	She just had a baby that's all.
VADA	We have a baby?
HARRY	Uh huh, a boy, you've got a new brother.
VADA	Can I see him?
HARRY	You can do anything you want. You're his sister.

HARRY	Hey you're not eating your meatloaf.
SHELLY	If I eat it I'll throw up.
HARRY	Well you should at least try a little bit.
SHELLY	Then I'll throw up a little bit.

SHELLY	I don't know if I want to.
HARRY	Vada I wanna ask you a favor, remember you can absolutely say no if you want to.

HARRY	Oh, she's fine, she'll love her new room.
SHELLY	Look we react to every kick this baby gives, maybe Vada's trying to tell us something too.

HARRY	Oh, Shell, that's ridiculous, where are my needle nosed pliers?
SHELLY	Listen, if a boy wants to do homework with you, it really means he didn't have nerve to ask you out on a date, so you'll get your homework together and pretend to be studying, and the next thing you know you're ordering pizza and talking about your favorite movie stars.

HARRY	Well if there was an article about it I'm sure she did. She was always reading.
SHELLY	Yes I know, it runs in the family.  New book?

SHELLY	Never heard of him. 
HARRY	How about a nice glass of milk?
SHELLY	And some taco chips so I can dunk.

HARRY	I told you about the pumpkin didn't I?
SHELLY	No.
HARRY	Ah, well, I bought her this huge pumpkin for Halloween, but she couldn't bear to carve it so she saved it for weeks, and it ended up under the Christmas tree.

HARRY	She can spread her wings, right here in Pennsylvania. You don't send a child alone to Los Angeles, she could come back with her ears pierced, her legs shaved and God knows what else.
SHELLY	She is not a child Harry, she is a young woman, she's on the brink of...
HARRY	Disaster, disaster lurks behind every  palm tree.
SHELLY	You're being narrow-minded.

HARRY	Yeah and they forgot to ask for one who wasn't having hormone surges.
SHELLY	Oh come on Harry, we're talking about five days here.
HARRY	I really think we're going overboard for just a simple school assignment.

HARRY	Reason? What reason?
SHELLY	Phil's moving to LA, Grammoo's passing, the baby being born, Vada's report, I think...

HARRY	I'm sorry I couldn't come pick you up honey.
SHELLY	I was pushing as fast as I could.

SHELLY	Maybe he's wet?
HARRY	Maybe he's hungry.

VADA	Are you the Hillary Mitchell who went to school with Maggie Muldovan?
HILLARY	Maggie Muldovan? Did you...know her?

VADA	It's okay really, I was just a baby.
HILLARY	I'm sorry, it's just...I've been taking all these seminars to get in touch with my feelings and...sometimes it gets out of hand.

VADA	Thanks.
HILLARY	I remember Maggie...and your Dad too, you know we used to all pile into his old 54 Ford pickup. &quot;Chuck the Truck&quot; we used to call it.

VADA	His name's Harry Sultenfuss.
HILLARY	Oh.  Ohhh?
VADA	What're you saying?
HILLARY	Ummmmm, look, I...I...
VADA	Are you saying my mother had another husband?
HILLARY	Oh honey, back then...people did crazy things.
VADA	They sure did! They got kicked out of school, they married truck drivers...these are my mother's greatest accomplishments? I'm sure glad I came all the way out here to find them out.

JEFFREY	Sure am, who are you?
VADA	I am Vada Margaret Sultenfuss. My mother was...
JEFFREY	Maggie...Maggie's little girl.

JEFFREY	I was hoping I'd get to meet you.
VADA	You mean, you knew about me?

JEFFREY	Umm...can you come in for a minute?
VADA	I'd like to, thanks.

VADA	Bye.  She looks a little like me when I was a little girl.
JEFFREY	Does she?

JEFFREY	I'm glad you're here.
VADA	You are?
JEFFREY	Yeah, come on, let's talk.

VADA	We have this school assignment to write about someone we never met and I chose my mother. She was born in Los Angeles and since my uncle Phil moved out here I came in to visit him and then I looked at her high school yearbook and...  and I called a few people and one guy said that she went to UCLA, another guy said that I should call Hillary Mitchell so....
JEFFREY	Hillary Mitchell? How's she?
VADA	Oh she's great...she's a little crazy though. Anyway, Hillary said that you had a black Ford truck and this policeman I know got in touch with Motor Vehicles and...he gave me your address and here I am.
VADA	I told you it was a long story.
JEFFREY	That's all right, you know what? You sound just sounded just like your mother...she told great stories. Stories with crazy accents and...special effects.
VADA	Special effects?
JEFFREY	Yeah like, switching a lamp on and off when she was talking about lightning...audiences love stuff like that. And your mom knew how to work an audience.
VADA	I don't know very much about her...I was hoping that you could help me.
JEFFREY	I'll try.

VADA	And she saved it.
JEFFREY	Well, we didn't have a camera...so she just wrote the date on the bag and said, &quot;This will be out wedding album, this will be a day we will never forget.&quot; We never did.
VADA	Do you have any pictures if her?
JEFFREY	I've got something better.

VADA	She's beautiful.
JEFFREY	We performed on the beach one summer...ha...everything went wrong.

JEFFREY	Would you like...eh...to have these movies?
VADA	More than anything in the world.
JEFFREY	It's good to see Maggie again...and you.
VADA	Umm...didn't you ever wonder about me?
JEFFREY	Well I didn't know about you until after she was gone.
VADA	I thought that...umm...maybe you'd be curious about how I turned out.
JEFFREY	I'd say you turned out just fine.
VADA	I guess what I mean is, my mother married my dad after you...and then I was born, so I thought that...maybe you got divorced because of me.
JEFFREY	Wait...woah...woah...wait a minute...Do you think I'm your father?
VADA	Well...
JEFFREY	Honey I'd be proud to be your father, really. It just isn't so.

JEFFREY	Maggie wanted to have a baby...and...umm...I didn't.
VADA	oh.
JEFFREY	She didn't wanna miss out on anything...especially motherhood...it got to be a real problem with us.

JUDY	Hi.
VADA	Come on in!
JUDY	That's okay.
VADA	It's just a corpse.
JUDY	I know that.
VADA	You should be here when they bring in a body that's been dead for a couple of days, and they haven't found it yet, 'cause it was in an apartment, and no-one came to visit, or floating in a river, and then the body starts turning this weird shade of green, you know, like watery pea soup? The arms and legs deteriorate first, the body looks like a raisin with four fat legs. Anyway, this is why I'm seriously considering cremation. Judy??

JUDY	My mother can't have any more kids.
VADA	Neither can mine. She's dead. It's Shelly who's pregnant.

VADA	What are you staring at?
JUDY	It's Kevin, I don't want him to see me.
VADA	See you? He can smell you from there.
JUDY	Oh God, he's coming over here, act natural, totally natural.

VADA	What's the matter?
JUDY	He likes you.
VADA	Likes me? He said I looked like a grasshopper.
JUDY	Boys always pretend they hate you when they really like you.
VADA	That's ridiculous, so, if you really can't stand someone, then you pretend that you're really crazy about them?
JUDY	I don't know. And I don't care, Kevin's a jerk and I don't like him anymore. He's all yours!

JUDY	Hi.
VADA	Hi, wanna help me pick out wallpaper for my new room tomorrow?
JUDY	ehh...I don't know I mean....

JUDY	Then what did she do?
VADA	Well...I'm not supposed to talk about it, but since I'm gonna write about it I might as well tell you. She was a spy against the Russians.

JUDY	So she had you in jail, in Russia?
VADA	Well actually I was born in Siberia and then they shot her and sent me home to my Dad.

KEVIN	Is it okay if I drink this?
VADA	It's okay with me, hi Kevin.
KEVIN	Well if it isn't Vada, the grasshopper girl.

KEVIN	Vada, he was giving you an easy out so you wouldn't have to write about your mother.
VADA	But I wanna write about her.
KEVIN	You're crazy, what was her big achievement? Did she invent gravity?
VADA	No-one invented gravity, it just exists.

KEVIN	Oh please, who do you think you're kidding? And where did she spy on the Russians from, here in Pennsylvania??
VADA	No, not here in Pennsylvania, she went to Russia undercover with her acting troupe and got a lot of highly sensitive secret plans sent back. Just when she was about to go home, she got caught, and they killed her.
KEVIN	All right, so when did she have you between all her acting and spying and getting caught?
VADA	That's simple. She was pregnant with me...when she went to Russia and she didn't know...and then when the Russians found out, they waited to shoot her 'cause you're not allowed to kill pregnant women anywhere in the world.

ROSE	Hello.
MAN	Hi.
ROSE	What can I do for you?
MAN	Ehh...I'm staying at the chateau and the guy who runs the garage there said that you're the best Jag people in town...so uhm.
ROSE	Well Enrique is great and...we are the best.
MAN	Then I have come to the right place.
ROSE	I guess you have.
MAN	I'm Sam Helburn. Sam.
ROSE	Rose.

VADA	This is really very nice of you.
MAN	It's no problem, I had a mother once myself.

MAN	If it's in here at all, it's in the back two rows.
VADA	O.K. Thank you very much.
MAN	Happy hunting.

VADA	He's writing. Hello?
MAN	If you're selling Girl Scout cookies I'm borderline diabetic.
VADA	You're Alfred Beidermeyer aren't you?

MAN	Hi there...can I help you?
VADA	Are you Jeffrey Pommeroy?

MR. OWETT	Vada?
VADA	The poem is really about attitude. It's about not giving up and...it's easy to be overwhelmed sometimes but...that's when we should...force ourselves to push on.

MR. OWETT	Vada what about you, who have you come up with?
VADA	My mother.
MR. OWETT	Your mother?
VADA	I never met my mother.

MR. OWETT	Hey Vada. How's your report coming?
VADA	Great, I have so much to say, I hardly know where to start.
MR. OWETT	You know I've been re-reading Virginia Woolf, I think she'd be a natural for you, she led a fascinating life.
VADA	Thanks, but I think I'm gonna stick to my mom, she led a fascinating life too.
MR. OWETT	I'm sure she did. 

NICK	Thanks
ROSE	Give it back Nicholas!
NICK	But we made a business deal.
ROSE	What ever happened to a good old-fashioned favor huh?

ROSE	Nicholas! What are you doing up?
NICK	I...ahhh...umm...I'm thirsty.
ROSE	There's water in your bathroom.
NICK	I want juice!
ROSE	Don't wake up Vada.
NICK	I won't.

NICK	If the fruit burst into flames I'll be prepared.
ROSE	You're so clever.

ROSE	You're grounded 'till you're fifty!
NICK	You're over reacting!
ROSE	Make that sixty and I'm docking your allowance for two weeks.
NICK	MOM!
ROSE	You think this is easy for me? You go out on the town and I get to be the bad guy. Look I don't want you to be some punk hoodlum delinquent but I can't do my job as a parent if you don't do your job as a kid.

VADA	Thanks....
NICK	No THANKS!
VADA	He said it was a gift.
NICK	Yeah, RIGHT.
VADA	I don't need you to be telling me to...
NICK	TAXI!!!

VADA	My parents had a brief, but intensely fulfilling relationship. She's remained a woman of mystery to this day.
NICK	And you're gonna solve the mystery?
VADA	I got it all figured out, I know she went to Wilson High School, so first thing tomorrow, I'm gonna go there and get a copy of her yearbook. That way I can get the names of all the people she was in clubs with and found out who her friends were.

NICK	You know eavesdropping is a very unattractive habit.
VADA	I wasn't eavesdropping, I was overhearing.
NICK	I didn't ask for the money, Phil just gave it to me.
VADA	Well look, I know that all you care about is your precious mini-bike. It's obvious you have no sense of historical perspective, I think we're here.

NICK	Getting off please.
VADA	Excuse me, pardon, thank you, excuse me.

NICK	They obviously have no sense of historical perspective either.
VADA	It's not funny! I mean what am I gonna do? Without that yearbook I'm lost. I can't just walk around town looking for someone with a Wilson High School Letter sweater!!!
NICK	Vada.
VADA	WHAT??
NICK	Calm down! We just have to ask ourselves, where your books come from.

NICK	I don't mean to alarm you, but I'm getting a nose bleed from the altitude.
VADA	Just remember the needle in the haystack.
NICK	I never did understand that story, did someone find the needle or not?
VADA	What difference does it make?
NICK	A big difference, if someone found it we should keep looking, if they didn't we're just wasting our time.
VADA	Oh my gosh, here it is!

VADA	Look, here she is. Margaret Ann Muldovan - Newspaper, Literary magazine, French Club, Drama Club, Debate Club, Girls Basketball and Swim team.  With Maggie's combo of good looks and talent, we're sure to be seeing her name in lights. She was gonna be famous.
NICK	Yearbooks always set you out for disappointment, I want mine to say: Nick probably won't amount to much, so don't be surprised if you never hear anything about him again. Can we go?...It smells like someone left their gym bag in here.
VADA	It's the leather bindings, I love the fragrance of vintage books.
NICK	I love the fragrance of chilidogs.

NICK	Don't forget, the girls change their names if they got married.
VADA	I'd never do that.
NICK	Get married?
VADA	Change my name.
NICK	What, you think the guy should change his name?

VADA	I don't think anybody should change their names, that way you can always find them when you need them.
NICK	What if you don't wanna be found?
VADA	Why do you argue with everything I say?

NICK	You saved a lot of lives, you should be very proud.
VADA	Umm, I'm trying to find out her greatest achievement.

VADA	You ratted on my mother??
NICK	Who are you? Hitler's hall monitor?

NICK	Care for a smoke?
VADA	This'll be great in my report, my mother was suspended for smoking.
NICK	I think it's cool.
VADA	You would.
NICK	You'd rather have a mother that's a member of the police state? Rules are made to be broken.  Just ask him.

NICK	Just call us the &quot;dead end kids&quot;.
VADA	May I use the phone please.

NICK	Boy, you're really into this.
VADA	He is one of the great poets.

NICK	If he has a heart attack you're carrying the body down yourself.
VADA	At least it gives you plenty of exercise.

NICK	Look at it this way, however bad I feel, it isn't as bad as becoming extinct in a bottomless pit of tar.
VADA	And I thought I was weird.
NICK	You are weird. Let's just go.
VADA	Oh, no wait, I like that you bought me here.

NICK	Hey what do I care...I mean, consider the sorts, a chick from Pennsylvania, who wears a mood ring.
VADA	This isn't just a mood ring.
NICK	Does it work?
VADA	Well, it doesn't open cans or anything but it...it's sort of a reminder of a friend of mine.
NICK	Boyfriend?
VADA	Well he was a boy, he was my friend...he was my best friend. When we were kids we were gonna...move out here and move to the Brady Bunch.

NICK	Do you think your friend's up in Heaven now, looking down on you and watching you all the time?
VADA	Well, I hope he's not watching me all the time.
NICK	Let me see if it changes colors on me.
VADA	ehh...Okay...but be careful, it has a lot of sentimental value.

NICK	Maybe it'll fit my pinkie.
VADA	Don't force it, you'll break it.
NICK	I'm not gonna break it, I just wanna see it change colors.
VADA	I want it back now. I never should have taken it off, I want it back.

NICK	Hey relax, I'm not gonna break it.
VADA	Give it to me!
NICK	Come and get it.
VADA	Just give it to me!!
NICK	Just come and get it...right here!
VADA	DON'T, come on!!!

NICK	Woah, watch it!
VADA	DON'T!!!
NICK	Uh oh...
VADA	What do you mean &quot;Uh Oh&quot;???
NICK	...I dropped it.
VADA	In the tar??
NICK	It was an accident, I'll get you a new one.

NICK	Where are you going???
VADA	Owh...

NICK	What are you doing? You can't go in there!
VADA	Oh no?!?!?!

NICK	It's dangerous!!
VADA	Leave me alone!!

NICK	You mean,  this ring?
VADA	Jerk! You IDIOT!!!

NICK	Never heard of her.
VADA	Montgomery Clift, wait 'till I tell Shelly.
NICK	Here's Judy Garland!

VADA	My mother stood on this very spot.
NICK	I'm afraid your feet won't fit in there.
VADA	That's 'cause I was cursed with the Sultenfuss Bear Claws.  My hands fit.
NICK	Big deal.

VADA	What's he smoking?
NICK	What do you think?
VADA	Really?

VADA	Hey look!
NICK	This is a totally barbaric custom.

VADA	Right.
NICK	And you'd be my cousin?
VADA	Yeah I guess...sort of.
NICK	But we wouldn't really be related right?
VADA	Oh no, we wouldn't be from the same bloodlines or anything. We'd be like two total strangers who...accidentally had relatives that got married.
NICK	Good. I mean...
VADA	Marriage can really complicate things. So, aren't you gonna say anything about my earrings?
NICK	I already did, it's a totally barbaric custom...but on you, it looks good.

VADA	It's not his fault!
NICK	No...it was me. And I'm sorry mom, really, ju...just tell me what to do, I'll do anything.

VADA	No, but sometimes he drives a hearse.
NICK	He's an undertaker.

VADA	Maybe not...but maybe it does. If no one told me about this, I mean...maybe they're trying to hide something.
NICK	Like what?
VADA	Maybe this Jeffrey guy is...is my real father. I mean...look at me, I have the hair of a dead person and...and my nose, no one in my family has this nose, it could be the nose of...a...of a complete stranger,

NICK	That thing you said about your nose...it was a stranger's nose...well it's not...it's...I mean...it's yours...you know?
VADA	Nick?
NICK	Yeah?
VADA	This has been a real confusing day.

VADA	And I'm gonna use the movies when I give my report. Jeffrey says audiences love special effects.
NICK	You better ace it...you sacrificed our whole vacation.

VADA	...umm...Listen, I'm sorry...you had to sacrifice your entire vacation.
NICK	Some sacrifices are worth it.
VADA	You mean...it wasn't that terrible?
NICK	I wouldn't say it was terrible...it was...kind of...
VADA	An adventure?
NICK	Part adventure...part miracle.

NICK	Write me a poem?
NICK	No?
VADA	I'll write you ten poems.  Bye.
NICK	Good-bye, look in your backpack.

NICK	Muh??
PHIL	I'd consider it a personal favor.

NICK	What's that?
PHIL	Ten bucks.
NICK	What's it for?
PHIL	For the mini-bike fund.
NICK	Wow!
PHIL	Well I know you're not crazy about taking Vada around tomorrow, so...I just want you to know I appreciate it though.
NICK	No problem.
PHIL	You're a good man Nicholas.
NICK	Phil, I think you should consider... fades as Vada walks off

SAM	Well Rose was being very thorough.
PHIL	Was Rose.

PHIL	Doctor Helburn, what a surprise. In the last couple of days we've changed your oil, realigned your brakes, balanced and rotated your tires, aligned your front end, and flushed out your entire cooling system, I really didn't expect to be seeing you for another three thousand miles.
SAM	Oh what can I say Phil, it's just that I feel so welcome here.

PHIL	Okay, that does it, that does it, the strudel does it, first it's brakes then.... I mean I am not gonna let some Podiatrist with a Jaguar full of strudel come waltzing in here and....
SAM	I'm not a Podiatrist, I'm a Cardiologist.
PHIL	Who cares? Rose, tell him we have an arrangement.
SAM	Well, wha...what kind of arrangement?

SAM	And you certainly shouldn't settle for anything less that you deserve.
PHIL	You stay out of this, look, if I had a red XK-150 with a black interior, I sure as hell wouldn't be handing out relationship advice.
SAM	I don't think the color of the interior is....
PHIL	Rose this not the place to be having this...

PHIL	Vada!! Vada runs and jumps into Phil's arms Look at you, oh hi, hi, hi!! How are you? You look great, how's Shelly? Your dad?
VADA	They're great.
PHIL	How about Nick? Did he take good care of you?
VADA	He was very polite, worth the entire five dollars.
PHIL	Uh huh, well...good to know. Phil hands Nick a               5 note

VADA	She lives here too?
PHIL	Ahh, that's right, like one big happy family. This is Nick's room and uhh....
VADA	But...are you engaged or something?
PHIL	Dating, seriously dating. You're thirsty, want something to drink? Sure you do, it's been a long trip.

VADA	Sounds like you have a fear of commitment, Uncle Phil.
PHIL	That's ridiculous, I'm...I'm very, umm, what do you call it?
VADA	Committed?
PHIL	Committed.
VADA	So does that mean that you sleep here every night?
PHIL	Yes, it does.

VADA	Well then that's not exactly dating is it.
PHIL	Vada, I know that traditionally you're not supposed to do a lot of these things before you're officially married...but these are very, very special circumstances.

VADA	I had to be, I only have five days. So just point me in the right direction and....
PHIL	I'll do better than that. I'll send you off with your own private guide.

PHIL	Lock the door.
VADA	Bye.

PHIL	Uhh sweetie, I wou... I wou...I wou...
VADA	Don't worry, I'll do it in my own subtle way.

VADA	I feel like before I can talk to him I have to see his face.
PHIL	How's this for a solution. We'll take a drive over to his place, you can introduce yourself....
VADA	I'd like to see his house but...I don't know if I'd have the nerve to just go up and knock on his door. I don't think I can go through with it.
PHIL	Then we'll keep driving...you'll decide.

VADA	Do you think I should tell my dad about Jeffrey Pommeroy?
PHIL	I don't know, he's got an awful lot on his mind right now.

VADA	Maybe.
PHIL	Then again, your dad's got his own memories and he's got his own life now...I think this is a secret just between you and your mom.
VADA	A secret, I like that.
PHIL	This is it I guess.
VADA	Well, I've come this far...the least I can do is knock on the door.
PHIL	You want me to come with?
VADA	I should do this myself.
PHIL	Okay...take your time...I'll...I'll go for a walk around.
VADA	Okay.

PHIL	No, you're the best and I don't want you talking to anybody on the plane.
VADA	Dad already gave me this lecture. He's gonna meet me at the airport, then we'll go for some pizza, then we'll have dinner in bed with Shelly.
PHIL	Sounds great, well you give 'em both one of these for me.

PHIL	Who knew that when I started working in the finest foreign car shop in LA, I would also find the light of my life.
ROSE	Yeah, well he left out a couple of steps, ah look, I've gotta get back to these bills, Phil will you help Vada get settled?
PHIL	Come on...I'll show you where you're gonna stay.

PHIL	Then you'll be all set.
ROSE	Sounds like you're very organized.

ROSE	No, there's no problem, Dr. Helburn just needs to have his oil changed.
PHIL	Oh I see, 'cause usually that doesn't require such a lengthy consultation.

PHIL	What's with the touching, why was he touching you?
ROSE	He wasn't touching me he was just...gesturing...
PHIL	He was caressing.
ROSE	Phil for God sake.
PHIL	God? No I didn't think you'd want to invoke God Rose, because he saw even more than I did. ROSE Look Phil, if you want the rights of a husband, you're gonna have to ask me something but if not, you're gonna have to get accustomed to the rights of what you are.
PHIL	Oh...what's that?
ROSE	Right now? An intimate border with...mechanical skills.

PHIL	Hi!
ROSE	Oh, Hi, how's the investigation going?

ROSE	Oh, yeah, sure, help yourself.
PHIL	Anyone with taste, anyone with breeding.... A gentleman, would choose British racing green, with maybe a tan interior...but when you buy a red car, with a black interior and wire wheels, you have one thing on your mind and one thing only and I'm too much of a gentleman to say what that one thing is...in front of the children.

PHIL	We may go out for coffee after the meeting so don't expect us before midnight.
ROSE	There's plenty of fruit.
PHIL	You know where the fire extinguisher is.

PHIL	Wait, are you saying that I don't appreciate?
ROSE	I'm saying he asked me out for coffee, like a real date, when was the last time you did that?
PHIL	Wha...what do you mean? We have a date every night.
ROSE	No, that's not a date, a date is when I don't cook.

ROSE	Yes, what kind of arrangement? I'd be very interested to know what kind of an arrangement we have.
PHIL	You know exactly...what kind it is. Come on Rose...what do you want from me?
ROSE	I don't want anything you don't wanna give me.

ROSE	I think this place is just fine.
PHIL	You know how I feel about you.
ROSE	You like the way I cook...you think I make out a great invoice.  PHIL You and Nick and...and this...this garage are my whole life...I love you. Sure you don't have the greatest taste in music...but there's not another woman who could look so sexy in that smock. What I'm try... what I'm trying to sa...

ROSE	You really think I look sexy in this smock?
PHIL	Is that a yes?

VADA	You're Nick's mother?
ROSE	What, did you think he was raised by a pack of wolves? Don't be misled by the haircut.

VADA	I'm just tired.
ROSE	All right, well get to bed early and don't let anybody in. Bye.

ROSE	Go to your room.  And you...I don't suppose your father gave you permission to pierce your ears, did he?
VADA	Not exactly.
ROSE	Well just don't shave your legs...he'll never let you visit us again if I send you home hairless and full of holes.

VADA	Shelly's sick...I have to get to the bottom of this whole thing and get back there.
ROSE	She'll be all right baby.
VADA	Yeah...right, it's pointless to worry.

VADA	Bye Aunt Rose.
ROSE	Bye Niece, Vada.

ROSE	So what's wrong?
SAM	Nothing, nothing at all.
ROSE	I mean...with your car.
SAM	Oh, ahh, oil change, I...ehh...I just drove in from Chicago and uhh...nice hair.
ROSE	Excuse me?
SAM	I was commenting on your hair.
ROSE	Oh, are you a hairdresser?
SAM	I'm a pediatric cardiologist.
ROSE	Oh, you mean you...fix the hearts...of little babies?
SAM	Mostly...little babies, but...not exclusively.

SAM	...It's all in the hands really. You know you have nice hands, you operate?
ROSE	Yes, I do.
SAM	...so I guess I'll always...teach...you know...'cause it makes a good relief from the operating-room, I feel I have an obligation...

ROSE	Ahh, Dr. Helburn, why don't you come in tomorrow-morning at eight o'clock, that's when we open, we'll get you started.
SAM	I'll be here.

SAM	Good morning.
ROSE	Well maybe for you.
SAM	Something wrong?
ROSE	Well let's just say you're lucky you deal with children who are under anesthesia.
SAM	Well, even without anesthesia I always tell my patients to...eh... to relax.

ROSE	Oh no, I, I...eh...I couldn't.
SAM	You couldn't?
ROSE	Well I'm sort of involved.
SAM	Sort of?
ROSE	Let's just say I...eh...I'm involved.
SAM	Where I come from, involvement...generally calls for a substantial piece of jewelry.
ROSE	Oh, well, I don't wear a lot of jewelry.
SAM	All right, so you don't like jewelry but...eh...you do like...eh...good music. Liszt, one of my favorites.
ROSE	Lizt was my parents' favorite, they were Hungarian.
SAM	Hungarian. Famous for their beautiful music...and beautiful women.

SAM	Ahh, why don't I come in first thing in the morning and you can check out that left blinker for me.
ROSE	Oh, sure okay.
SAM	I'll see you then...I look forward to it.

VADA	Assuming the baby's a &quot;Supremes&quot; fan.
SHELLY	I bet your mom sang to you.

SHELLY	They're enormous, I know.
VADA	Is there milk in them already?
SHELLY	No, the milk comes when the baby comes.
VADA	When did you umm, I mean umm...
SHELLY	Oh, I was a very late developer, they used to call me &quot;Shelly Two Backs&quot;. All my friends had real bra's, not like the training ones I had.
VADA	Why do they call them training bra's? It's not like learning to ride a bike.
SHELLY	I know, I guess it's just sort of preparing you for the rest of your life. It's not easy being a woman.
VADA	You're telling me.

VADA	Then Grammoo said on Christmas Eve, there was this sickening smell permeating the entire house.
SHELLY	Oh no.

SHELLY	Mmmmmm. Root beer float that sounds good.
VADA	Did she mention any contests that she won? I mean she must have had some awards, she was so talented and all.

SHELLY	What's this? December 8th, 1958?
VADA	I don't know, Dad doesn't either.
SHELLY	Well, it must mean something. She was obviously very sentimental.
VADA	This is one of my favorite things, her passport.
SHELLY	Oh Vada she's so beautiful.

VADA	Margaret's my middle name, but everybody called her Maggie. Los Angeles, have you ever been there?
SHELLY	No. You know they say, that it never rains, that you can barbecue on Christmas day...instead of riding your bike, you just surf over to your friends house. Oh, and the place is just crawling with celebrities. I know someone who saw Walter Matthau picking up his dry-cleaning.
VADA	Is that why Uncle Phil moved there?
SHELLY	Uncle Phil just needed a change, a little adventure.
VADA	I wonder why she got a passport if she never went anywhere.
SHELLY	Well you've gotta be prepared.
VADA	I'm definitely traveling some day.

SHELLY	Why not now?
VADA	What do you mean?
SHELLY	How would you like to go visit your Uncle Phil in Los Angeles...next week during your spring vacation, you could do research on your mom.
VADA	But what about you and the baby? You need me.
SHELLY	Oh, but I'm not due to have the baby for another six weeks or so.
VADA	Yeah, it would be kinda great.
SHELLY	It would be fantastic.
VADA	But Dad'll never go for it.
SHELLY	You leave your father to me.

VADA	Shelly?
SHELLY	Hey! Oh look.
VADA	He's so tiny.
SHELLY	I know, look at his little hands.

VADA	Did it hurt a lot?
SHELLY	You have no idea.

VADA	Let me hold him.
SHELLY	O.K.

VADA	Really?
STANLEY	Who didn't? She could play basketball like Jerry West, she danced like Sid Cherice, then she'd look at you with those big blue eyes, forget about it. I asked her out a couple of times but she always said no.

VADA	Beidermeyer?
STANLEY	Beidermeyer that's it, what a mad man.
VADA	He's a great poet.
STANLEY	He is?
VADA	Do you know him?
STANLEY	Everybody did, walk along Citrus between Fountain and Sunset any afternoon.
VADA	He'll remember my mother for sure.  STANLEY It was a big class Vada and...but...well of course he'll remember, who could forget Maggie?

STANLEY	No it doesn't but... I...I wish it did.
VADA	Well, thanks for your help Mr. Rosenfeld and I'm sorry my mother wouldn't go out with you, I'm sure she would have had a really great time.
STANLEY	I would have tried to show her a good time. I promised her when she left that I would never forget her and I never did. Stanley Rosenfeld does not forget.
VADA	This is the street he walks down every day. When he needs inspiration...

ALDYS	Guy Perkins and his amazing Lemmings. They push your car out of its space, hide it, then watch while you look for it. We've taken to chaining ours together for safety. I'm Aldys.
JOSIE	I'm Josie. Aldys is an interesting name.
ALDYS	When it's not yours. My mom was going through her Harlequin Romance phase.
JOSIE	Try being named after a guitar- playing pussycat.

JOSIE	Never mind.  That is so awful that they hide your cars.
ALDYS	guess. Although, what is truly awful is that with the combined intellectual effort of every kid in that room right now-

JOSIE	What?
ALDYS	Well, do you?
JOSIE	Synecdoche uses a part to represent a whole- as in " head of cattle", whereas a hyperbole is simple exaggeration like "I could eat a horse."
ALDYS	Nice.

JOSIE	How long will they watch us for?
ALDYS	Until Guy tells them to go. Once they watched me for like two hours. I found my car the next day in the T.J. Maxx parking lot.
JOSIE	Why do they listen to Guy?

ALDYS	: Because he's Guy Perkins.  Listen, you want to walk to Na- Na's and get something to eat?
JOSIE	Yeah. Let's do that.

ALDYS	Yeah - isn't it amazing that those guys are our same age? I mean, they just seem so much younger, you know.
JOSIE	Oh I know.

ALDYS	I'm going to be so happy to get to college. I hear at Northwestern they don't make fun of you for knowing the element table.
JOSIE	Hey--I went to Northwestern!  Once. To use the bathroom.

JOSIE	So what are your hopes, your dreams, what do you want to be?
ALDYS	Professor of medieval literature. Novelist. Weekend flautist.

ALDYS	Just so you know, I think they recalled these cars in 1974.
JOSIE	Thanks.
ALDYS	Sure. No problem.

ALDYS	Hey, Josie, how are you at Calculus?
JOSIE	Petty good.
ALDYS	How would you like to join The Denominators? The Math Team could really use a new brain. We lost our best logarithm guy last year.
JOSIE	College?
ALDYS	NASA.  Plus we have these really fun pizza study groups, and we go to-these all county meets. And, I mean, not that you need it, and without sounding too much like the Godfather, I think we could offer you a certain amount of protection", if you know what I mean. We all kind of stick together and watch out for each other.

JOSIE	What is with this school and prom?
ALDYS	Southglen South competes every year for best prom, and usually they win. We Denominators don't even go to prom. -But to everyone else it's huge.
JOSIE	Aldys, don't miss your prom--it only happens once.
ALDYS	This one has been so hyped. We're tied for most wins with Northglen North. This year's winner will determine the winner of the century. The theme is everything. So whatever Southglen picks has to be totally unique--

JOSIE	What's that?
ALDYS	That's the old drive-in. They call it "The Court". Now it's just a continuous party for Guy's group.

ALDYS	Sometimes I wonder what they talk about.
JOSIE	Yeah, I know.
ALDYS	I mean, what if they just stupid to hide the fact that they're actually brainiacs with super powers and they're plotting to take over the world and make my life hell until I die?

JOSIE	Have you ever wanted to go to The Court?
ALDYS	Are you kidding, Josie? It's lame. All they do is stand around and get drunk. It's lame.
JOSIE	It is?
ALDYS	Yes, it's lame.
JOSIE	Yeah, it sounds lame. Why would we want to go there, and stand around?
ALDYS	Exactly.

ALDYS	Hey, where's your sweatshirt?
JOSIE	 uhh, must have forgotten-
ALDYS	No biggie. I have an extra in my locker. I'll get it for you.

ALDYS	Remember, that poet that we liked  the reading he's doing at Big Cup? I got us tickets.
JOSIE	Right. 7:30.
ALDYS	I'm late for lab.

JOSIE	What?
ALDYS	Last night. 7:30. Big Cup. I kept calling you, but I only got your machine. I don't even know your parents line and I was really worried.
JOSIE	Oh. I forgot.

ALDYS	It's romantic, what you're doing, and they want to be a part of it.
JOSIE	Well I'm so glad that you guys are.

ANITA	Oh, man! Who told?
GUS	Roger in Op/Ed. Don't make me send you another memo about my policy on inter-office dating.

GUS	YOU DID.
ANITA	YOU KNIT?

ANITA	Gus, have you ever been in love?
GUS	Leave.
ANITA	Oh give it up, Gus. I'm just making conversation.
GUS	Love. Who knows what that is? Now circulation, deadlines, those I understand.
ANITA	You should go out every now and then, Gus; with some new ties the girls would be all over you.

GUS	Go away. I have enough work here to last me all night.
ANITA	Listen, I don't have any plans-- you want some help?
GUS	No Roger from op/ed?
ANITA	Nope.

SAM	Hi. You're here for the sex talk?
ANITA	Well. I like a man who gets to the point.
SAM	You're Pam?
ANITA	If you say so.

ANITA	I had a lunch break so I thought I'd come by and see you. Your teacher is a fox!  Why don't we discuss that after class. But the burning is totally normal.  Oh look. Class is over already.
SAM	I thought this was a 45-minute seminar.
ANITA	Right. Right.

SAM	Now look. Let's focus. Prom theme. We need a new idea.
ANITA	OH! How about "Under the Sea?"

ANITA	Well excuse me.
SAM	What about the "Roaring Twenties"
 or "The 80's"?

ANITA	Guess who I did it with last night...
JOSIE	Roger in Op/Ed.
ANITA	Who told!
JOSIE	You did. Yesterday you said, and I quote, "I have a date with Roger from Op/Ed tonight and I'm going to do it with him."
ANITA	Well, that doesn't mean it was going to happen for sure.

JOSIE	Intra office. And they're not dating. They're having sex.
ANITA	And what is your policy? That if you're not getting any, no one can?

ANITA	Okay. Remember when they took your office chair in for repairs and forgot to return it?
JOSIE	Yeah.
ANITA	You stood for like a month.

JOSIE	Forget it.
ANITA	I swear to God, Jos. When is the last time you went on a real live date?
JOSIE	I'm concentrating on my career right now.
ANITA	Do you own any colored underwear? Stripes? Anything?!
JOSIE	Anita!
ANITA	Look. You're way under 30, you're cute, some guys find white Carter's underwear sexy  If you talk to his nose, you don't even notice the eye.

JOSIE	The right guy is out there. I'm just not going to kiss a whole bunch of losers to get to him.
ANITA	Yeah, but sometimes kissing the losers can be a fun diversion.
JOSIE	When I finally get kissed, I'll know.

ANITA	Okay. If you've never kissed a guy, we got bigger problems than the underwear.
JOSIE	I've kissed guys. I've just never kissed a guy. Felt that thing--

JOSIE	My own undercover feature - "Written by Josie Geller".
ANITA	Jos - Maybe you should turn it down.

JOSIE	You don't think I can do it.
ANITA	No - It's just a lot of pressure for your first piece, that's all. I mean, it's not a half-page article, it's a major undercover piece, Jos. Look what Rigfort did to Dutton - and that guy's his cousin!

JOSIE	Okay, just so I'm clear here -- neither of you think I can do this.
ANITA	Jos, that's not what we're --
JOSIE	Anita, when you wanted to seduce the guy in the mailroom and you didn't think you could learn Spanish fast enough, who quizzed you on your verbs?

ANITA	Senorita Josie.
JOSIE	And Gus - when you picked up knitting, who showed you how to hold the needles?

ANITA	So, you were a geek. Big deal.
JOSIE	Anita, remember espadrilles?
ANITA	Please. That doesn't make you a nerd. Everyone wore those shoes.
JOSIE	The girls threw them at me in the locker room.
ANITA	Okay. That's bad.
JOSIE	At the end of the yeat the person who got the most direct his to my head got to toss me into the pool.
ANITA	Mama mia.  Just because you were a nerd once doesn't mean it's going to happen again. That's why you have me for fashion consultation.

ANITA	Now this is cute.
JOSIE	That is lingerie.
ANITA	So I was thinking about what you were saying - y'know, about really being kissed? I think Roger could be the one.
JOSIE	What'd you feel when you kissed him?
ANITA	Bridgework?
JOSIE	Very romantic.

JOSIE	How about this?
ANITA	I am not letting you out of the house in that, young lady.

ANITA	Cuuuute!
JOSIE	'Nita, this is about reporting, not accessorizing.
ANITA	And we're going to have to do something about your hair.
JOSIE	Anita!
ANITA	Jos, please try and have some fun here, okay? How many of us get to go back to high school? You're gonna have a blast!

ANITA	Hi!

ANITA	Josie! Josie, how'd it go? Did he ream you?
JOSIE	Yeah, but I'm okay. I've got some work to do.
ANITA	You need my help?
JOSIE	No, thanks--I'm doing this on my own.

JOSIE	Wow. It's packed.
ANITA	It's great! They're behind you. They feel like they know you.

JOSIE	George! What are you doing here?
GEORGE	Just get in the van, Josie.

JOSIE	What is this?
GEORGE	Hidden camera.
JOSIE	Wings?
GEORGE	We used it for our expose on overweight flight attendants--"Is That Why They Never Give You a Second Bag of Nuts?"
JOSIE	I'm not doing this until I speak with Gus.

GIBBY	Hey Josie. It's Josie, right?
KRISTEN	Can I just say--I totally love Ex- Lax.

KRISTEN	wait, rewind. Do you really think she hooked-up with our Rob? They're so--different.
GIBBY	Sometimes opposites attract.

GIBBY	Wannabes. Kirsten transitioned last year.
KRISTEN	Her dad sold a car to Leonardo Di Caprio's uncle and before he picked it up, her dad let us all sit in it and take pictures.

GIBBY	Oh-my-God. You totally ripped off my Malibu Barbie idea.
KRISTEN	Uh uh. I'm Disco Barbie.

GIBBY	You guys--what is the one thing that could ruin my senior prom?
KRISTEN	That you would trip on your Barbie heels and I'd get named prom queen?  Did I say that out loud?

JOSIE	That'll teach me to wear white after Labor Day.
GIBBY	Umm- I don't think you're supposed to wear white jeans after 1983.

GIBBY	I think it's pronounced gauche.
JOSIE	Yeah it's French. There's no accent aigue, so the e is soft.

GIBBY	Josie, you have totally transitioned.
JOSIE	Transitioned?
GIBBY	You crossed over.

GIBBY	: Wait. Do you know any gay guys?
JOSIE	Why?

GIBBY	He is totally crunching on you.
JOSIE	Do I want to be crunched?
GIBBY	By Guy?

GIBBY	Hey Josie- who did Archie date Betty or Veronica?
JOSIE	Betty.

GIBBY	Don't tell me... You're Medieval Barbie.
JOSIE	Rosalind and Orlando.  From "As You Like It"?  Shakespeare?

GUS	Computer's down. Septuplets story. I need it back by five. Hopefully the copy's not a mess.
JOSIE	It is hoped that it's not a mess. "Hopefully" is an adverb. It means "with hope". You have it defining the copy, and I'm pretty sure the copy doesn't have feelings.

JOSIE	Well, excuse me for caring about words.
GUS	So. You and Roger in Op/Ed.

GUS	How many times have I fired her?
JOSIE	Five-- Six--
GUS	Eh.

JOSIE	Hey Gus--did you see the story idea I left on your desk?
GUS	Yeah--the blind foster home mother. It was good. I got Cahoon on it.
JOSIE	Oh. Cahoon. Yeah, he's--good.
GUS	Geller, we've been over this. You're a great copy editor. Maybe my best copy editor. You're not a reporter.
JOSIE	You've done five of my ideas.
GUS	You know what separates us office flunkies from the reporters?
JOSIE	They don't have to be in the office Christmas show?
GUS	A flack jacket.
JOSIE	A--flack jacket.
GUS	Every Tom, Dick, and Harry thinks he can write. But a journalist gets in there, right where the bombs are. He's aggressive. Grabs the bull by the balls.
JOSIE	You don't think I can grab bulls' balls?
GUS	Geller, you don't want a reporter's life. They're very--messy. You're all about order. Control. And getting me my copy by five.
JOSIE	Hey--I can be out of control.

GUS	Don't worry, I'll straighten all this out.
JOSIE	But I don't want it straightened out.
GUS	Geller, this is way out of your league.

JOSIE	It's my dad. He worries.  Hi, Dad. I miss you too.
GUS	You're a sick puppy, Geller.

JOSIE	It's an expose on cafeteria food.
GUS	And you're leading with the terrible truth about cole slaw?!
JOSIE	Well, the bulk of it will be about the pimento loaf--
GUS	Geller...you wanna be a reporter? Take a look at what sells! Sex scandals. Bribery. People jumping off buildings. So unless a kid just killed himself because he was being paid to have sex with the school mascot in a big vat of this cole slaw, you got nothing!

GUS	No, I am appalled that I have a reporter in there, undercover, for almost three weeks now- I had to read about this in the Tribune.
JOSIE	Oh. Right.

GUS	Responding officers found minors, marijuana, and cheap wine coolers when they responded to a call to break up a party at what Southglen High Schoolers have come to call "The Court." Seventeen-year-old Kristen Rey says, "Yeah, everyone who's anyone is at The Court on Saturday night."
JOSIE	Kristen got a quote?

JOSIE	Yes, urm, she's right. I have learned it is a very popular place for the young people to go.
GUS	Have you been there?
JOSIE	Uhh, no.
GUS	Have you been to any parties?
JOSIE	Well, how would you define to parties"? Because we ordered a deli platter at this one Denominator drill session--

GUS	This is where the stories are. You are going to become friends with these people. You are going to party with them. You are going to hang out with them on weekends. When they go to prom, you are going to be in their same damn limo!
JOSIE	Gus I, the popular kids and I, we just don't- I mean, I don't think I can do this.

GUS	Do you even know these kids?
JOSIE	They hid my car--

GUS	Get to know them. Very well. Your job and my job depends on it.
JOSIE	Depend on it. No s. Your subject is plural.
GUS	OUT!

JOSIE	Gus?
GUS	No, it's the Great and Powerful Oz. Now listen--you're in over your head. This is how it's gonna work. I review the tapes, I find your story.
JOSIE	What if I say no?
GUS	I bet Good Housekeeping would go gaga over the cole slaw piece.

GUS	That's your story!
JOSIE	You're crazy. I can't--I can't-no. No.
GUS	It's got it all--sex, intrigue, immorality in the education system--
JOSIE	He's my teacher!
GUS	And that's the best part.  "Teacher-Student Relations: How close is too close?" We're gonna blow the lid off it!
JOSIE	There is no lid! Nothing's going on between Sam and me. Coulson. Mr. Sam Coulson and me.
GUS	Not yet. Every person in this office comes in here and watches you guys! It's like the goddamn Young and the Restless! Rigfort's salivating over it.
JOSIE	You already pitched this to Rigfort?!

GUS	Your story was Rigfort's baby. We were scooped! We've got nothing. Zippo. You totally and completely screwed both of us.
JOSIE	Maybe I could talk to Rigfort, you know, tell him the whole story.
GUS	I'll tell you a story. It's about this shy copy editor who makes a mockery of herself and her boss when she completely botches her first assignment as a reporter.

JOSIE	Yes you are. A guy. Guy. Quite a guy. Oh my. Look at that--I rhymed.  Yikes.  Bikes!
GUY	Are you in special ed?

JOSIE	Oh my god.
GUY	Dude, you rock!

JOSIE	Rob's?
GUY	Yeah, you gonna be there?

GUY	Hey there.
JOSIE	Hey. There.

JOSIE	Maybe we should go in a different room?
GUY	I already checked. There are some pretty serious couples in there.

GUY	I'm sure you've probably heard that I want to ask you, but I'd like to know if you'd go to prom with me. I know we Didn't hit it off right at the beginning but-
JOSIE	Yes. I'll go. Yes.

GUY	Rufus.  But I don't even know where you live.
JOSIE	You know what?  Why don't you just pick me up here? We could all share a limo.
GUY	Cool. I'll catch you later.

GUY	You having fun?
JOSIE	Oh yeah. The best. Josie takes in the spectacle around her.

GUY	Hey--what are you thinking about?
JOSIE	Shakespeare. How he described a night like this--"Look how the floor of heaven is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold".  What about you? What are you thinking about?
GUY	My sword.

JOSIE	Oh.
GUY	Josie, you rock my world. You're like the most amazing girl I've ever dated. You're so smart and fun and crazy! You rock my world.
JOSIE	You said that already.

TRACY	God, I can't do this.
JOSIE	Maybe because we're not supposed to be having sex with bananas.
TRACY	You know what, though? I feel like I'm really ready to do it. To have sex for the first time.
JOSIE	Wow. That's big. I mean sex is a really big deal. You shouldn't do it until you know you've found the right person.

JOSIE	You know, Adele penguins pick one mate. They spend their whole life looking for that one other penguin and when they find it, they know. That's the penguin they stay with for the rest of their lives.
TRACY	But I'm not a penguin.

JOSIE	Hey Rob, what's going on?
TRACY	I'm Rob's prom date.

JOSIE	That is so--weird that you name your car.
ROB	No it's not. Guys name their penises.
JOSIE	Okaaaay....  That car's going to bankrupt you.
ROB	She just needs a new windshield wiper.
JOSIE	Because I bought the windshield last week. I'm a hubcap away from owning more of Bambi than you do.

JOSIE	Rob, take the money, okay? It's no big deal.
ROB	No, it is. It's just one more thing to add to your "things that make you a better person than me" list.
JOSIE	Better person than I.
ROB	See!
JOSIE	I know this woman. She works in admissions at Lakeshore Community? She might be able to get you in for the Fall semester. Maybe she could get you the baseball scholarship, and I could help and--
ROB	I'm not going to college, Jos. And I'm not playing anymore baseball. This is my life.
JOSIE	This--this is a luau that sells packing material!
ROB	Someday this luau is going to be all mine!
JOSIE	How can you just give up like that? You had a real shot at playing college ball and you let one case of mono stop everything. Don't you want more? To move out of Mom and Dad's? Pay your own bills?
ROB	Oh yay! And then I could be as happy as you!
JOSIE	For your information, I am very happy. Deliriously happy. I lead a very happy life!

JOSIE	It's just for a couple of months.
ROB	You can't just "borrow" my car for a couple of months! That's like ten years in Bambi life!
JOSIE	I'll give you my Buick Le Sabre.

ROB	Wow. This must be big.
JOSIE	I got an assignment from the paper. I'm going undercover. Back to high school.

JOSIE	What!?
ROB	Do you remember high school?
JOSIE	It was a long time ago -
ROB	Don't you remember what they called you?

JOSIE	Josie Grossie.
ROB	I know. I came up with it.  You look nauseous.
JOSIE	Nauseated. I look nauseated. Oh God.

JOSIE	Are mom and dad here?
ROB	No. They're at the Franklin Hint Expo at the Skokie Holiday Inn.
JOSIE	Good.

ROB	No, I mean, no big whoop.
JOSIE	I can't do this.

ROB	These girls are high schoolers? Damn, we've got some underage hotties on our hands, here!
JOSIE	Gus insists that I become friends with these kids. The popular kids. It's impossible.
ROB	Why is that impossible?

JOSIE	Rob, you don't know how it was for me back in high school. No one ever threw juice boxes at you in the hallway. You never dreamed about being popular- you already were. All I wanted was to be accepted, and they just fucking tortured me. I can't do all that again. I can't go back to Southglen South.
ROB	Oh my God! You're at Southglen South? They have a killer baseball team.
JOSIE	Rob. Please focus.

ROB	Jos, you've been to college, you're successful, you wash your hair now-- you're not Josie Grossie anymore.
JOSIE	Don't you realize how much I wanted to be you in high school? Just for one minute to feel what it was like to be popular?
ROB	Come on! It's not that hard. All you need is one person. Once the right person thinks you're cool, you're in. Everyone else will be too scared to question it.
JOSIE	Is that true?
ROB	Little known fact.

ROB	Look, don't you wanna show them - Gus, Billy Prince, yourself--that you're not freaked out by the cool kids anymore? That you can go in there, be friends with them, and get your story?
JOSIE	Yes, desperately.
ROB	Plus, if you quit you're no better than me.
JOSIE	Better than I...
ROB	That's the spirit!

JOSIE	I've been in a horrible accident. This is a coma-induced nightmare.
ROB	No. Josie, this is real.

JOSIE	Are you crazy?! You can't do this.
ROB	This is it Jos! This is my ninth inning! The game isn't over--I just thought it was!  I get on the Southglen baseball team, the right scout sees me-- I'm into the minors- it's game time!
JOSIE	You're twenty-three years old!
ROB	With the reading comprehension of a fifteen year old! Plus, I'm popular... You want to be popular... I can recognize a cry for help when I see one.
JOSIE	Hear one.  Rob, this is so like you. You know, you can't just come in here and be popular in just one day.

JOSIE	Really?  Rob-, that girl is sixteen.
ROB	And a gymnast!
JOSIE	She's sixteen years old, Rob. That's totally and completely illegal.

ROB	Wow, Josie- you look really-
JOSIE	Rufus?
ROB	Yes. Exactly. Major Rufus.
JOSIE	Thanks. And what are -
ROB	Duh. Tom Cruise. "Risky Business".

JOSIE	Rob--thanks. For everything. This is really happening. I never thought--
ROB	I know.

ROB	Josie, finally. I just wanted to come over and make sure you're okay.
JOSIE	Really?

ROB	No- not really, Josie. NOT REALLY. How could you do that to me?  I helped you. I got you everything you wanted. And how do you repay me- you blow everything TWO DAYS before pro scouts come to see me play. Once they had seen me really play- they wouldn't have given a shit about my age.
JOSIE	wasn't even thinking about-
ROB	No, you weren't. Don't you realize the only time I was really happy in the last five years was when I was playing ball with those guys?
JOSIE	I-
ROB	No, shut up, Josie. Just shut up.

SAM	Hi, everyone.  I don t think we've met. I'm Sam Coulson- although for some reason the school has this thing about not letting you guys call me Sam.
JOSIE	I'm Josie. Geller. I think the school would probably be pretty comfortable with you calling, me that. Josie.

SAM	Whoa. Deja Vu.
JOSIE	Sorry. Forgetful.

JOSIE	Dorothy Parker--
SAM	You like her?
JOSIE	I love the way she writes.
SAM	Not the happiest of souls.  "Art is a form of catharsis, and love is a permanent flop."
JOSIE	But I think she wanted to be happy, that's why she wrote. I mean, she was still writing about love, right?
SAM	True. I guess she hadn't completely given up hope.  Are you sure you're seventeen?
JOSIE	Sure, why?
SAM	Because seventeen-year-olds do not like writers from the '30's. They don't even like people in their 30's.
JOSIE	Well, I'm definitely seventeen and  now definitely late--

SAM	Hey, Josie, hold on.  You've been hiding something from me.
JOSIE	Oh I don't think so.
SAM	Your writing. It's amazing, Josie. You're really talented. And far less depressing than Dorothy Parker.
JOSIE	Thank you.
SAM	So what are you thinking for college?
JOSIE	College. Haven't really thought about it.
SAM	That's crazy. I'll get you some applications.
JOSIE	Oh no no no no no. See, my family, we don't go to college.  We just go right into sheep herding.
SAM	Josie you owe it to yourself to go. For your writing. You're a natural.
JOSIE	Thanks. Wow. That's--really nice to hear.
SAM	Josie, you're different. When you speak in class, I can tell--You actually feel the words--  in here. They're alive. Like-Eurdora Welty talked about the word it moon"? How for her it was like a Concord grape. "That Grandpa took off his vine and gave to me to suck out of its skin--"

SAM	This seat taken?
JOSIE	Thank you.

JOSIE	Are you--scared?
SAM	I'm gonna tell you something here, and I hope it doesn't undermine my position as an authority figure. I'm a little afraid of heights.
JOSIE	You're afraid of the Ferris wheel.
SAM	Actually, it's more the plunging head first into the crowd part that gets me.
JOSIE	Oh right. The Spiderman incident.
SAM	You remember that story?
JOSIE	Of course. I remember everything from your class.

SAM	Yoooooow.
JOSIE	Don't look down!

SAM	Okay This is okay. Smooth.  Can I ask you something? Do you think I tell too many stories in class?
JOSIE	That's what makes you interesting.  As a teacher.
SAM	God, I would love to think I'm an interesting teacher. I mean, I had maybe one or two teachers in high school who had any passion at all.
JOSIE	You do. Seem to. Have passion. In the classroom.
SAM	You have to say that. You're my student.
JOSIE	I don't have to say that.

SAM	Boys.
JOSIE	I know.
SAM	I'd like to tell you that we all grow out of it, but that's a lie. Some of us will always be rattling cages.
JOSIE	Why do you do that?
SAM	I don't know. And you know what's scary--when you get older it just gets more confusing. I've spent the last ten years with women who are basically all wrong for me.  You know what, I shouldn't be talking about this stuff with you.
JOSIE	That's okay. It's nice to have someone to talk to--

JOSIE	You have to say that. You're my teacher.
SAM	I shouldn't say that, because I'm your teacher.

SAM	Thanks, Josie. This wasn't as bad as I thought.
JOSIE	When are you going to open your eyes?
SAM	I'm thinking when I'm home.

SAM	You're really doing a great job here, Josie. I like your "can do" attitude.
JOSIE	Thanks.  They weren't related to Humpty Dumpty, were they? Tweedle Dum and Tweedle Dee?
SAM	Maybe distant cousins. They did have that egg shape in common.
JOSIE	But Humpty Dumpty was alone.
SAM	That's sad, isn't it? He had to sit on that wall all by himself. He deserved to have somebody.
JOSIE	That's really what we all need, right? Someone to sit up on the wall with us--
SAM	Yeah. To watch the world go by.--
JOSIE	To put us back together again when we fall.

SAM	Our penguin, right?
JOSIE	Do you think you'll find her?
SAM	Yeah, actually I do.

SAM	Oh my God! I almost forgot--I got you a meeting with the admissions guy from Dartmouth!
JOSIE	What! But--I wasn't even going to go to college--
SAM	No, I know, but I pulled some strings, got him to look at your writing, and he agreed to meet you.
JOSIE	Oh--yikes!
SAM	told him  --if I'm wrong about this girl, you can take away my teaching certificate!
JOSIE	Wow. You believe in me that much--
SAM	Of course I do. Josie, you owe it to yourself--to your writing, to go to college. You're a great writer. You just have to find your story.

SAM	Josie--you make a really beautiful prom queen.
JOSIE	Thanks. So do you.

SAM	Proms always make me sad. They're so final. Graduation. Everyone's scattering, moving on.
JOSIE	Well, are you here with anybody?
SAM	No, I'm alone.
JOSIE	It's weird because "prom" is actually from the word "promenade". And you can't really promenade alone, can you?

SAM	So--have you thought anymore about Dartmouth?
JOSIE	Yeah, I have.

SAM	Surprise! you were doing a story on me?!
JOSIE	No, surprise, I thought you'd be--
SAM	What? Happy? Why? Because it turns out all along that I was allowed to be attracted to you?
JOSIE	You were attracted to me?
SAM	Goddamnit, Josie! Drop the act. Do you have any idea what I went through every night because of you?!  I was attracted to a 17 year old! When I wasn't taking cold showers, I was trying to figure out what the hell I was going to do when I couldn't teach anymore! I thought I was the one being unethical.
JOSIE	Wait, I was going to tell you--
SAM	You set me up. For a story.  You know what's crazy? I was actually considering waiting for you.
JOSIE	But now you don't have to--
SAM	Now I don't want to! I bought all of your penguin crap. I thought I found her--the right one! And the problem was she was too young! No - the problem was--she didn't even exist!
JOSIE	I did exist. I do exist. I'm the same person!
SAM	The person I cared about wouldn't have done this. Everything out of your mouth has been a complete lie. I don't know you at all. For all I know you could hate Dorothy Parker.
JOSIE	I don't! Look, you could get to know me, again.

JOSIE	Please. Please don't walk away.
SAM	I just can't look at you the same way.

SAM	I told you you could write, Josie Geller.
JOSIE	I finally found my story.

SHEILA	Yes.
JOSIE	What?
SHEILA	Billy Prince is asking you to prom.
JOSIE	Why?
SHEILA	I don't know.
JOSIE	The poem! I knew he liked the poem!  Billy Prince is asking me to the prom.
SHEILA	That's what I'm saying.

KIRSTEN	That is so sad --
KRISTEN	I know, like five chickens had to die just so she could look that stupid.

KRISTEN	Kirsten, that bran muffin has like 75 fat grams.
KIRSTEN	Nah uh.

KRISTEN	Into our group.
KIRSTEN	It's really hard to do. Some kids try for all of-high school and never make it.

KIRSTEN	We'd love to transition a gay guy into the group.
KRISTEN	We're very evolved.

KRISTEN	Josie, you look Rufus.
KIRSTEN	Who are you guys?

KRISTEN	You ruined the whole thing!
KIRSTEN	You so do not deserve to be prom queen.

ROB	Hey Monty--you think we'll get any business today?
MONTY	I'm handing out a free lei to every customer! What do you think?
ROB	I think maybe people are scared off by the tiki torches.
MONTY	Change is scary. Robbie, let me tell you a little something about the mail business. I've been in it over thirty years. And in those thirty years, the only thing that's changed is the Elvis stamp and some gun laws. People are bored! They wanna shake things up!
ROB	I thought people just wanted their mail delivered on time.

MONTY	Aloha! Welcome!
ROB	Relax, Monty. It's just my sister.

TRACY	Hi. I'm Tracy and I'm sixteen and I'm a gymnast and I don't have a boyfriend...
ROB	Thank you.  I'm Rob.
TRACY	Duh.

TRACY	Rob, what do you want to be when you grow up?
ROB	Well, a ball player.
TRACY	No, I know. But, what if you don't make it? 'I mean, you don t Want to be working at a mail place the rest of your life. It's okay for an after school job, but, come on, "hi, I'm Rob and I run the Tiki Post"?! Totally lame.

TRACY	Are you having fun?
ROB	Yeah. Definitely.

TRACY	Good. Gibby gave me champagne.
ROB	Maybe we should sit.

ROB	Wow - I-
TRACY	Rob, I mean it. I want you to be my first. Me and you. Once the floor stops spinning, let's have sex.

BILLY	You good-lookin' sumbitch...don't you EVER die!
ANTHONY	That's your line for tonight, ya know.
BILLY	What, good-lookin' sumbitch?
ANTHONY	No, numbnuts, die.  You get your nurse alone, you look her in the eye, and say, "Baby, they're training me for war, and I don't know what'll happen.  But if I die tomorrow, I wanna know that we lived all we could tonight."  I've never known it to fail.

BILLY	Are you sure they're here?
ANTHONY	If Evelyn's here, the rest are here!

ANTHONY	What is it with Red?  I've never seen him this way.
BILLY	He's been like that all day.  Hey Danny, you coming?

BETTY	Do you have trouble with your boobs in the uniform?
BARBARA	You mean hiding them?
BETTY	Hide them?  On a date with pilots?  I'm talking about how you make them show!

BARBARA	We'll ask Evelyn.  Evelyn?  Evelyn!
BETTY	Ooo, she's thinking of her date!  Come on, you've been dating a pilot.  We want to know what we can expect.

BARBARA	Now listen, it's hands off Billy.  I mean, you can put your hands on him if you want to, but then my hands will break yours.
BETTY	He was that good?
BARBARA	No, I was.

BETTY	I wish she could forget him.
BARBARA	You don't forget love, Honey.  Not ever.

RED	He, I'm R-Red.  Red S-Strange.
BETTY	Red...Strange?
RED	You know the football player, Red G- Grange?  Well the guys called me R-Red, cause you know, I'm red...and they thought I was strange, so, you know, Red G-Grange, Red Str-Strange.
BETTY	But...they called you Strange?  Because of Red Grange?  I don't get it.  Was Red Grange strange?
RED	How would I know.

BETTY	Do you always stutter?
RED	Only when I'm n-n-n-
BETTY	Nervous?
RED	Yeah.  But if I have to get something out, I c-can always s-s-s-  SIIING!

BRITISH AIR COMMANDER	On loan from Colonel Doolittle, is it?
RAFE	That's me, Sir.
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER	Good on you, then, Rafe McCawley.  We'll get you situated in some quarters, and then introduce you to the equipment you'll be flying.
RAFE	If you're patching up bullet holes right here on the runway, maybe we should skip the housekeeping and get right to the planes.
BRITISH AIR COMMANDER	Are all the Yanks as anxious as you are to get yourself killed, Lieutenant?
RAFE	Not anxious to die, Sir, anxious to matter.

COLONEL	You're Walker, right?
DANNY	Yes Sir.
COLONEL	That was a nice little stunt you pulled, buzzing the base.
DANNY	You liked that?
COLONEL	Oh yeah.  I liked it so much I'm cutting you out of the squadron.
DANNY	Sir?
COLONEL	I don't buy that hot dog shit.  So you and your buddies are gonna transfer your planes up to Haleiwa.
DANNY	Hale-what?
COLONEL	You'll love it.  No base, no bars, just lots of sun and aircraft maintenance.
DANNY	Sir, I --
COLONEL	Too late for apologies, Walker.
DANNY	I wasn't gonna apologize, Sir.  I was just gonna say it was worth it to feel like a real pilot again, even if it was only for five seconds.

DANNY	Hey.  You.  Mr. Coma.
COMA	Where's that lizard?
DANNY	What lizard?
COMA	The one that slept in my mouth last night.
DANNY	What the hell happened to you guys?

DANNY	Yeah.
COMA	Mai-tai's.  I got this to tell ya, about mai-tai's.

DANNY	Rafe's girl, Evelyn?
COMA	You guys know her?!  I gotta have an intro!  Man, I'd like to --

COMA	Ever hear of mai-tai's?  Comes in a big...pot.  Like...like...
RED	A m-missionary?
COMA	No, like...

RED	I th-think I'm gonna like it here.
COMA	You guys are new?

COMA	Shit, he's puking on my feet!
RED	Well, you p-puked on his feet.
COMA	Yeah, but he was wearing shoes!

DANNY	They ready, Earl?
EARL	They'll all fly, but -- oh, shit...

EARL	Cock-suckin' right I do!!  In the gun lockers!
DANNY	You guys get those!  Earl, Rafe, come with me!

DANNY	Earl!  You said the planes were ready but -- but what?
EARL	Of the four left, only one is full of fuel.

EARL	Danny, I don't like this fuckin' guy.
DANNY	Anthony, Red, stay with the guns!  Coma, you cover the cannons!  Joe, Theo, come with us!  Earl, you get on the radio! We're gonna fight these fuckers.

EARL	Who the fuck taught you to fly?
DANNY	He did.

RAFE	Bandits at 2 o'clock.
DANNY	Power dive!

RAFE	It's Germans!
DANNY	Kill the bastards!

RAFE	Good shooting, Danny!
DANNY	Good shooting, Rafe!
RAFE	Land of the free...
DANNY	Home of the brave!
RAFE	There's another one!

RAFE	Didn't you say test the limits?
DANNY	Hey, you wanna test my limits, you better line up a couple dozen women on the GROUND...cause I got NO limits in the air!

DANNY	How could you do this?
RAFE	The Colonel helped me work it out.
DANNY	I don't mean how'd you do the paperwork, I mean how the hell did you do it without letting me in on it?
RAFE	I'm sorry, Danny, but they're only accepting the best pilots.
DANNY	Don't make this a joke, Rafe.  You're talking about war, and I know what war does to people.
RAFE	Danny, you know how many times I saw you come to school with a black eye or a busted nose, and couldn't do a thing about it -- for you, or for your mother... or your father, with his lungs scorched out with mustard gas, and more left of his lungs than there was of his spirit? You've made your sacrifice, Danny.  It's time I made mine.

DANNY	Nah, you go on.
RAFE	I have to talk to Evelyn.  And I want you to meet her.
DANNY	Some other time.  I don't feel like a party.

DANNY	Didn't you say you told her not to come?
RAFE	Yeah.
DANNY	Then why are you looking for her?
RAFE	It's a test.  If I asked her to come and she came, it wouldn't tell me anything. If I tell her not to come, and she comes...then I know she loves me.

DANNY	You'd always go sit in a plane whenever you were upset.
RAFE	Upset?  Why should I be upset?
DANNY	Let's go get a drink.  Unless you're scared to talk about it.

RAFE	Sorry.
DANNY	Why be sorry?  That's what you feel, it's better to come out with it.
RAFE	I didn't mean it.
DANNY	Sure you did.  So come on.  Say what you think.
RAFE	Waitress!  Four beers!
DANNY	You don't wanna put beer over mai-tai.
RAFE	If you can't keep up, don't drink yours.

RAFE	We gotta face some facts here.
DANNY	What facts are those?
RAFE	I understand how it could happen.  I know why any guy would love her.  And I can't blame you that it happened.  You thought I was dead, she was grieving, you were trying to help her.
DANNY	I was grieving too.
RAFE	Yeah, right.  Anyway, you didn't know.
DANNY	So what are you saying?
RAFE	I'm saying now you do know.  So it's time for you to fuck off.
DANNY	You left her.  How's that for a fact?
RAFE	How's this for a fact?  I loved her first.

RAFE	How come you're not pukin'?
DANNY	I guess I'm used to it.  I've felt like throwing up every minute since you got back.

DANNY	Don't blame her, Rafe.  It's not like you're thinking.
RAFE	Fuck you.
DANNY	She loves you.  I know that.  And part of what she loves in me is how much of you she sees in me.

DANNY	She said I was so much like you.  I said, No, I'm not.  I'm like I am because of you, but I'm not you, not as good as you. Everybody else saw me as a loser with a big chip on his shoulder.  But you saw the better part of me, the part of me that could be like you, and changed me. You made me who I am.
RAFE	How sweet.  Is that when you put the move on her?

RAFE	Get me into a plane!
DANNY	Come on!

RAFE	Where are we going?
DANNY	Auxiliary field at Haleiwa, ten miles north of here.
RAFE	What's there?
DANNY	Six P-40's.

DANNY	This ain't a little feud, Earl, it's World War Two!
RAFE	They're coming around for another pass. You got extra weapons and ammo?

DANNY	It's tight.
RAFE	Tighter 'n a bulls ass in fly season. Don't hit the barn.

DANNY	They're all over us!
RAFE	Bet they don't dust crops in Japan.

RAFE	You hear my okay?
DANNY	Yeah.  So you can call me if you need help.
RAFE	I got a half a tank.  You?
DANNY	Little less.

RAFE	Land of the free.
DANNY	Home of the brave.

RAFE	I'm out of ammo!
DANNY	I'm out of fuel!

DANNY	Sorry you're gonna die -- cause I'm gonna make it.
RAFE	What color flowers you want me to bring to your funeral?

DANNY	Fun today.  Like old times.
RAFE	Danny, what the hell are you trying to do out there?
DANNY	What do you mean?  I'm just doing what we've always done.
RAFE	No.  You're trying to beat me.
DANNY	We've always tried to beat each other.
RAFE	Bullshit.  We've played with each other, pushed each other.  This is different. Like you want to prove that you're better than me.  Who's that for -- Evelyn?

DANNY	Maybe just trying to measure up.
RAFE	What's between you and her is between you and her.  But here's what's between you and me.  Everybody has a hero, Danny. And you're mine.

DANNY	It's shorter than our practice runway.
RAFE	They'll turn the ship into the wind before we launch.  That'll help.
DANNY	We'll be loaded with 2,000 pounds of bombs and 1,500 pounds of fuel.  I got another Chinese phrase for Doolittle. "Mug wump rickshaw mushu pork."  It means "Who the fuck thought up this shit?"

RAFE	It's not getting any longer.
DANNY	Longer?  It's getting shorter.

DANNY	Broomsticks instead of tail guns.
RAFE	We'll get separated over the target, but you and I will rendezvous for the run to China.  I'm on your wing.
DANNY	And I'm on yours.  Land of the free.
RAFE	Home of the Brave.

RAFE	Danny...
DANNY	I can't make it.
RAFE	Yes you can.

DANNY	Hey!  What is this, the planes all bunched up like that?
MECHANIC	The brass is afraid of sabotage.  This makes 'em easier to protect -- and easier to service.
DANNY	What about easier to hit in an air raid?
MECHANIC	Who's gonna to that?  Japan is four thousand miles away.  So you guys just arrived, huh?
DANNY	Yeah.
MECHANIC	We got a saying here.  A-low-HA!

DANNY	Lieutenant... I'm Danny Walker.  I'm Rafe McCawley's best friend.
EVELYN	Were.  Isn't that what you mean?  Were. Because he's dead, isn't he?  And that's why you've come.

DANNY	Before Rafe left, he asked me to be the one to tell you, if it happened.
EVELYN	He told me about you.  That he had no other friend like you.
DANNY	Rafe's folks had a crop dusting business, owned their own planes.  Real straight, frugal.  My father was the town drunk. Went to sleep one night on the railroad tracks and was still there when the Dawn Express came along.  Rafe and I were the only ones at the funeral.  He took me back to his house, and I never left.
EVELYN	You were more like brothers.
DANNY	I taught him to drink beer.  He taught me how to fly.
EVELYN	He said you're the only one he ever saw who was better in the air than him.
DANNY	...He said that?

DANNY	How's everything?
EVELYN	We got some soldiers in traction from a jeep accident, but it's quiet.  Except for the occasional fighter plane buzzing us.
DANNY	That might not have been such a good idea.  They're making us fly out of a half-paved airfield.  The real punishment is that I won't be back to the barracks till it's too late for dinner or coffee. So I guess it's goodbye for awhile.
EVELYN	I was just thinking that war is a series of goodbyes.  Do you think that's why we're meeting.  To help us say goodbye to Rafe?
DANNY	I swore not to talk about him tonight, but there's all this stuff I think I ought to tell you, that he didn't get a chance to.  Rafe was...he was lonely.  He had such high expectations of himself that he always felt empty.  The week he met you he told me he felt his heart had always lived in winter, and for the first time in his life he has seen the spring.

DANNY	Sorry.
EVELYN	He told me he didn't want to leave me with regret.  Now that's all I have.
DANNY	Hey, have you seen Pearl Harbor at night?
EVELYN	Well...sure.
DANNY	From the air?

EVELYN	So beautiful!
DANNY	Hang on.

RED	And where's the secret base, Sir?  The one we t-takeoff from.
DOOLITTLE	The navy will get us to within 400 miles of the Japanese coast.  We'll launch off the carriers from there.

RED	C-Colonel, we been p-practicing takeoff's, but I ain't sure we can land on these carriers d-decks.
DOOLITTLE	We won't have the fuel to get back to the carriers; they'll turn and run back to Hawaii the minute we're airborne.
RED	Then wh-where do we land?
DOOLITTLE	I have a phrase I want you all to memorize:  "Lushu hoo megwa fugi."  It means "I am an American."  In Chinese.

DOOLITTLE	Now we have fifteen requests for the Emperor's Palace...and one for Tokyo baseball stadium.
RED	I d-don't think Japs ought'a be allowed to p-play baseball.
DOOLITTLE	I'd like to bomb their Emperor too.  But I think that'd just piss 'em off.  The idea here, Gentlemen, is not revenge. We're here to prove to them that they're neither invincible nor superior.  So let's try this again.  Military targets only.
RED	Colonel, to f-fight you need strategy. To have strategy, ya gotta practice.  And to practice it, ya gotta play --
DOOLITTLE	No baseball diamonds, Red.
RED	Y-Yes Sir.

DOOLITTLE	There are some people who think the outside loop is reckless and irresponsible.
RAFE	How could it be irresponsible, Sir, if you were the first man in the world to do it?
DOOLITTLE	Don't get smart with me, son.
RAFE	Never, Sir.  I just meant it's dangerous only for the kind of pilot who wants to show off, rather than inspire the other pilots in his unit.  And all you've done for me, Sir, working out the transfer, I did it to say thanks.  To honor you, Sir. What the French call a "homage."
DOOLITTLE	That's bullshit, son.  But it's really good bullshit.
RAFE	Thank you, Sir.

DOOLITTLE	Good luck over there McCawley.  I admire your decision.
RAFE	Thank you, Sir.

DOOLITTLE	I heard what you did.
RAFE	We can explain, Colonel.
DOOLITTLE	Explain what?

RAFE	Is that the good new, Sir, or --
DOOLITTLE	You're just about the only pilots in the Army with actual combat experience, so you're volunteering for a mission I've been ordered to put together.  Do you know what top secret is?
RAFE	Well sure, Colonel --
DOOLITTLE	Top secret means you help me pick the other pilots, train, and go -- without knowing where you're going until it's too late.

DOOLITTLE	In flight school you qualified in single and in multi-engine planes.  You'll be flying multi-engines here.
RAFE	Bombers.
DOOLITTLE	I want to introduce a couple of people. Doc White is a flight surgeon; he has volunteered for gunnery training so that he can go on the mission, because we can't spare the weight of an extra man.

DOOLITTLE	I thought I'd made it clear, I'm not just putting this mission together -- I'm leading it myself.
RAFE	I take it back, about the flowers.  We're all gonna die.

DOOLITTLE	Listen you guys.  I'm the first plane -- then McCawley, Walker, the rest of you. I'll have the shortest run.  If I don't make it, you don't go.
RAFE	Colonel...we're all going.  Whether you make it or not.
DOOLITTLE	I know.

DORIE	'Scuse me, 'Mam.  All the ship's doctors is golfing, and I couldn't find nobody to look at this.
EVELYN	Our doctor's gone too.
DORIE	Sorry to trouble you.
EVELYN	Wait, let me look at that... You better come in here.

EVELYN	How'd you get this?
DORIE	Boxin'.
EVELYN	Win?
DORIE	Yes'm.

EVELYN	What's your name?
DORIE	Dorie Miller, 'Mam.
EVELYN	I'm Evelyn.  And I'm just a nurse.  But I'm not playing golf, and that cut needs sewing, or else it's gonna make a big lumpy scar.  Whatta ya say?

EVELYN	How often you fight like this?
DORIE	Every other Sunday.  I'm heavyweight champion of the West Virginia.
EVELYN	What do you get for winning?
DORIE	Respect.

DORIE	Thank you, 'Mam.
EVELYN	Tell me something, Dorie.  A man as big as you -- and smart too, you knew where to come when your ship couldn't help -- do you still have to fight with your fists to get respect?
DORIE	I left my Mama and joined the Navy to be a man.  They made me a cook -- and not even that, really -- I clean up after the other sailors eat.  I shine the officer's shoes.  In two years, they've never even let me fire a gun.

EVELYN	You take care, Dorie.
DORIE	You too, 'Mam.

RAFE	Hello, Lieutenant.  Good to see you.
EVELYN	You too, Lieutenant.

EVELYN	Oh, this is Betty.
RAFE	Nice to meet you, Betty.

EVELYN	Danny's not coming?
RAFE	No, he...got some news today.  He'll be okay, he just didn't feel like coming tonight.
EVELYN	I was hoping to meet him.

EVELYN	Whatever you're trying to tell me isn't good, is it.  Or it wouldn't be so hard to say.
RAFE	The only reason it's hard to say is that I keep thinking I don't have the right to say it.  But I've got to because it's true.  I love you.  That must surprise you.
EVELYN	It surprises me that I'm not the only one on this balcony who feels that way.

RAFE	There's one thing I have to say.  I'm going away.
EVELYN	We're all going away.
RAFE	I'm going to the war.  The real war. Hitler's taken Europe.  The Brits are hanging on by their fingernails, and If they lose, there'll be more people killed than anybody can imagine.  And not just there, but here.
EVELYN	But you're in the U.S. Army, how could you --
RAFE	Colonel Doolittle pulled the strings, and put me on loan to the R.A.F.  They need pilots, and we need experience.  I leave tomorrow.
EVELYN	You waited til tonight to tell me?
RAFE	I had to tell you in person.  Because there's something else I need to say.

RAFE	Evelyn...you know the line -- let's make tonight memorable.  What I feel about you makes it impossible for me to say something like that.  If I don't come back, I don't want to saddle you with regret and sadness you'll carry the rest of your life.
EVELYN	I don't know if you can choose that, Rafe.
RAFE	Maybe not.  But I need you to know.  I love you.  And I will come back.  I'll find a way.  And then we'll get a chance to know if what I felt the first moment I saw you, and every minute since then, is real.
EVELYN	Do one thing for me, before you go.

RAFE	I sent telegrams, I guess the military traffic held them up.
EVELYN	Why were you sitting here, instead of...
RAFE	I saw you, I couldn't go in, I...just stood there wondering if you knew.  You looked...sad, and I had to sit down a minute.
EVELYN	How did you?...
RAFE	...Survive?  I jumped in a patch of fog, and nobody could see me.  I hit the water hard.  And it was so...cold.

RAFE	I called my folks, then Colonel Doolittle.  The Colonel sent a man to pick me up.  They wanted to debrief me. I told the Colonel I needed to see somebody first, and he had a supply flight heading out in an hour.  I've done a lot of talking.  You haven't said anything.
EVELYN	I'm just...so amazed, so glad to know that you're okay.  You are okay, aren't you?
RAFE	Nothing that won't heal.  I guess.

EVELYN	It's been...so different, being so sure you were dead.
RAFE	I'm so sorry for what you must've gone through, but I'm back.

RAFE	It's all right.  Danny always said I see things with my emotions instead of my eyes.
EVELYN	It's not your fault, Rafe.  The letter I wrote you, they --
RAFE	Don't worry about that.  Guys away from home, lonely, good-hearted women try to cheer them up.
EVELYN	It's not that I didn't mean everything I wrote.  It's just that -- I thought you were dead.  And now --

RAFE	What else can we do?
EVELYN	There's nothing you can do here, they'll die or they won't, we just --

EVELYN	Rafe --
RAFE	I need to tell you something.  I didn't know what it was to lose somebody, to see death and find how much it scares you. That you haven't lived and loved enough. I didn't understand.  Forgive me.
EVELYN	Rafe... No.  You forgive me.
RAFE	Of course I forgive you.  I know what you feel for Danny is real.  And your choice is your choice.
EVELYN	That's what I have to tell you, Rafe.  It wasn't a choice.  It --

RAFE	What?...
EVELYN	They were bringing back a ship full of wounded and needed extra nurses along.  I wrote Colonel Doolittle, and told him I needed to see you before you go.
RAFE	It must of been a convincing letter.
EVELYN	It was.  I couldn't have you go away, wherever it is...to war...without knowing something.  You think I made a choice, of Danny over you.  I didn't.  I didn't have a choice.  I'm pregnant.

YAMAMOTO	Uncharged torpedoes have different balance.
GENDA	I have arranged a live fire drill -- with your permission.

YAMAMOTO	Everything real except the fact that no one is shooting back at us.
GENDA	If we achieve surprise, they will offer little resistance.
YAMAMOTO	Set up teams of radio operators to send out messages the Americans will intercept, concerning every potential American target in the Pacific.  Include Hawaii -- the clutter will be more confusing that way.
GENDA	Brilliant, Admiral.
YAMAMOTO	A brilliant man would find a way not to fight a war.

YAMAMOTO	We have achieved surprise, but their carriers are not in port.  I don't like this.
GENDA	We have a fighter screen up, in case we are attacked, Admiral.
YAMAMOTO	We must go ahead.  This is our moment.

GENDA	We have achieved complete surprise!  The first wave is returning, the second is attacking now, and we have lost only a few planes.  We can launch a third wave, Admiral.
YAMAMOTO	The second wave has not returned.  And we have no idea where their carriers are. What is the damage report?

GENDA	If we launch the third wave and annihilate their fuel depots, we destroy their ability to operate in the Pacific for at least a year!
YAMAMOTO	And if we fail, and lose our carriers, we destroy our ability to fight them at all.  As soon as the second wave returns, we will withdraw.

ROOSEVELT	What if the Japanese did invade?
GENERAL MARSHALL	We've done studies.  We're confident we would turn them back eventually...after they'd gotten as far as Chicago.

GENERAL MARSHALL	We have bombed Tokyo, Mr. President. Radio Tokyo interrupted it's own broadcast to make the announcement.
ROOSEVELT	Have the planes made it to China?
GENERAL MARSHALL	There've been some complications, Sir. The Chinese didn't receive our request for homing beacons until is was too late to get them set.  And the planes had to take off so early they may lack fuel to make the mainland anyway.
ROOSEVELT	So those brave men are flying blind and running out of fuel.
GENERAL MARSHALL	The Chinese are sending out search parties to try to find the crews before the Jap patrols do, if any of the planes make it.
ROOSEVELT	God help them.

IAN	Leapin' Jesus!
RAFE	The struts are loose, the hydraulics are leaking, and the electrical system's shorting out in the cockpit.
IAN	Well which of those three ya want fixed?
RAFE	All of 'em.

IAN	If ye'd wanted a bloody Cadillac ya should'a stayed in the bloody States!
RAFE	And if you don't give me a plane that can handle combat, you better start learning to speak German.
IAN	Fook ya!
RAFE	Learn English, then!
IAN	Fook ya dooble!

IAN	I have'na been able ta --
RAFE	Crank her!

NISHIKURA	So you join us, Admiral.  Some of us thought your education at an American university would make you too weak to fight the Americans.
YAMAMOTO	If knowledge of opponents and careful calculation of danger is taken as weakness then I have misunderstood what it means to be Japanese.
NISHIKURA	The time has come to strike!  Or to sit and let the Americans cut off our oil and our future.  I know what you whisper to the others, Yamamoto -- that the Americans are strong.  Yet look at their leader.

NISHIKURA	You have something to say, Yamamoto?
YAMAMOTO	The Council knows I have opposed fighting the Americans.  No matter how great our resolve, they have resources beyond ours. If we must go to war, there is only one way -- deal them a blow from which it will take them years to recover.  In that time we can conquer all of the Pacific, and they will have no choice but to ask for peace.
NISHIKURA	You see us as capable of such a blow?
YAMAMOTO	The Americans themselves have made it possible.  We will annihilate them in a single attack -- at Pearl Harbor.

ALEXANDER	To isolation.  To an armed camp.  To a biblical spoof of a crazed father firing a gun at his only son.
PENTCHO	You taking any medication?

ALEXANDER	Don't waste it Pauly.  This is not an everyday talk.  Just input the information and ask relevant questions.  One: how did a celebrated life of the mind bring me  to this particular switching station?
PENTCHO	Dad...

ALEXANDER	Two: what if I didn't miss?
PENTCHO	You did.
ALEXANDER	Spare me your classical answer. Measurements in.  Results taken.  What if I didn't miss?
PENTCHO	You did miss --
ALEXANDER	-- What if your seven and a half precious liters were downloading over the parquet floor?  What then?   What did your life mean?  Who did you nurture, Pauly?  Who did you love?

ALEXANDER	What was her name?
PENTCHO	Excuse me???
ALEXANDER	What was her name?  The one I met.

PENTCHO	Mia...?
ALEXANDER	Yes....

PENTCHO	I've been dreaming about you.
MIA	Day or night?

PENTCHO	Could we go somewhere?
MIA	I'm heading out of town.
PENTCHO	Okay.

MIA	What?
PENTCHO	I could go out of town.

MIA	Could you?
PENTCHO	Where to?
MIA	A place you've never been.
PENTCHO	That's the physicist's playground.

MIA	Why am I doing this?
PENTCHO	It's an experiment.

MIA	We flopped the first time out.
PENTCHO	At the sub-atomic level, particles obey their own logic.  They connect in unimaginable ways.

PENTCHO	Could be.
MIA	What universe are you in, Paul?
PENTCHO	A quantum one.

PENTCHO	Nothing is real until it's perceived.
MIA	The Buddhists have been saying that for a millennium.
PENTCHO	How?

MIA	Of what?
PENTCHO	God.  I dunno.  The eternal nothingness. Mia.

MIA	What did it want?
PENTCHO	That's what it asked me.  "What do you want?"  I didn't answer.  I was in the middle of an experiment.
MIA	Like now?

MIA	No.  I didn't.   I'm listening.
PENTCHO	Inside every semi-conductor... you have two particles, with opposite charges, separated by an impassable barrier...

MIA	She's in L.A., he's in the Bay area --
PENTCHO	A five hundred foot thick steel wall.  But the connection between these two electrons is so --
MIA	Dysfunctional --
PENTCHO	That they tunnel, magically, through any obstacle, defying the practical laws of physics, in order to end up together --
MIA	And glow happily ever after.

MIA	I didn't want to leave things the way we did.  Not this time.
PENTCHO	Wait.  I want to tell you something.

MIA	I've been dreaming about this.
PENTCHO	Then you get it.  You'll understand.
MIA	What?

PENTCHO	Why?
MIA	So I can move on.  You too.

MARTIN	Why else?
ELLEN	Come on, say it.  You know...

ELLEN	Say it anyway.  Come on, how much do you love me?
MARTIN	With you, my life began and with you shall it end...

MARTIN	I have to cut his windpipe...
ELLEN	You're not a doctor, you'll hurt him!
MARTIN	What else should I do, damn it, he's dying!

MARTIN	Ellen, move aside...
ELLEN	Oh God, Tommi...

ELLEN	Stop that!
MARTIN	You'll never get away from me!

ELLEN	So, how does it feel to be kissed by two women?
MARTIN	They say it's fantastic.  At least that's what I read in a men's magazine.  So who are the two lucky ones?
ELLEN	Me and the muse, of course.  How is your book coming along?

MARTIN	Oh, the muse... we're still having our differences.  You know how it is with women.
ELLEN	Well then, I guess I'd better leave the two of you alone.  But don't forget...

ELLEN	What kind of a horrible thing is that?
MARTIN	It still worked in town.
ELLEN	I mean the armchair!
MARTIN	Oh, that was upstairs.  A real antiquity!  I think it's great.

ELLEN	Maybe the antenna's broken.
MARTIN	We're probably lucky that we even have running water and electricity! Damned box!

ELLEN	Hey... the fuse.
MARTIN	Oh, damnit!

ELLEN	Do you know where fuse box is?
MARTIN	In the cellar, I think. Wait, I'll take care of it.

MARTIN	Look at this!  We'll have to fix the whole wiring.  This stuff is dangerous as hell.
ELLEN	We'll call for someone from town first thing in the morning.
MARTIN	Are you crazy?  That costs a fortune!
ELLEN	Do you have a better idea?
MARTIN	I'll do it myself.
ELLEN	You?
MARTIN	My father was an electrician. Already forgot that?
ELLEN	My father was a pilot.  And do I know how to fly?

MARTIN	Hey, flower child, the sixties are over.  And this stuff is hazardous to your health.
ELLEN	Yes, daddy.

MARTIN	Where are you going?
ELLEN	Well, if you won't let me smoke grass, then at least I'll go get myself some cigarettes.

ELLEN	What are you doing?
MARTIN	Making our very own solstice fire.

MARTIN	Is everything alright?  Aren't you feeling well?
ELLEN	I just had a really strange experience.

ELLEN	Maybe I should talk to Dr. Roth about it.
MARTIN	Hey, take your time.  You know time heals better than any shrink ever can.

ELLEN	I have a funny feeling.  Do you think we'll get over all that's happened?
MARTIN	We just have to make a new beginning.
ELLEN	Cherry-red Tears.
MARTIN	What?
ELLEN	Cherry-red Tears, your first book. I read it at least nine times.  And then I found out you were going to attend some kind of book fair.
MARTIN	Not a book fair.  I was signing autographs in a department store.
ELLEN	I was so excited about meeting you. Again and again, I kept getting in the back of the line so I could be the last to talk to you.
MARTIN	And two months later, we got married.  And all because of one sentence:  "With you, my life began and with you shall it end..."

ELLEN	I miss Tommi so much.
MARTIN	So do I, believe me.
ELLEN	Do you really think anything can ever be like it was before?
MARTIN	Maybe different.  I don't know, Ellen.
ELLEN	If we stand a chance at all, it's only by sticking together.

MARTIN	Who was that?
ELLEN	Someone from the village.

ELLEN	Martin, it's not funny!
MARTIN	You know, it's not always easy for me, either.  But at least I try not to give in to each and every neurosis.

ELLEN	Well, apparently it was a big mistake to try talking to you. Don't you remember what we promised to each other?  Honesty - trust!
MARTIN	Come on, this isn't about honesty. You just need a good night's sleep. The way you toss and turn all night, even I hardly get any sleep.

ELLEN	Now, what did I do to deserve this?
MARTIN	Come on, at least try one.  It took me two hours to make these.

MARTIN	So, did you sleep good?
ELLEN	Yeah... I have to go to town.

ELLEN	Hey, you're still here.  I suppose you like it here with us.
MARTIN	No, thanks.  I have everything I need.  Drive safely, you hear?

MARTIN	Don't tell me you've made friends with that wandering flea circus?
ELLEN	Why not?  She can guard the house. By the way, I gave her a name: Clara.

MARTIN	Where have you been all day?
ELLEN	I went to see Prof. Roth!  You know, I had another one of those dreams last night.  I saw Tommi!

ELLEN	But that's not the point! What if all these things are somehow connected?
MARTIN	Oh, baloney.  You should just hear yourself talk!

MARTIN	Where have you been?
ELLEN	In the village.  Look what I found.

ELLEN	Events commonly interpreted as haunting apparitions often result from psychic disharmonies or undigested traumatic ordeals...
MARTIN	Ellen, what are you trying to prove, anyway?  That we've created ourselves a ghost?  Come on!

ELLEN	It's just a feeling.  Don't you sense it, too?
MARTIN	What? What am I supposed to sense?
ELLEN	The house - Tommi - something just doesn't jive here...

MARTIN	Who's that?
ELLEN	I haven't the slightest idea.

MARTIN	What?
ELLEN	Look at this!  The dog!  She's dead!

MARTIN	She was old.
ELLEN	Old?!  Come look at this!  She has wounds.  Wounds on her head.  Like thrashes.  Or bites.
MARTIN	Maybe an animal.
ELLEN	An animal?  What kind of animal? A goddamned T-Rex, or what?

ELLEN	Let me guess:  Another short circuit?
MARTIN	Hi, darling.

MARTIN	During the Middle Ages people were executed at every corner.  What's your point?
ELLEN	This house, the whole damned area around here is one mass grave... Now you might call me crazy, but there is something negative about the place.
MARTIN	Okay, so the house has a history and there might still be a couple of corpses in the moors.  "There is something negative about the place..."  What the hell are you trying to say?  Come on!  Spit it out!

MARTIN	Will you finally cut it out?  Just in case you haven't noticed, I am trying to write a book here.  And maybe - even with your birdbrains - you can figure it's a pretty tough job. So why can't you just leave me alone?
ELLEN	Damn it, look at you!  Don't you see what's happening with you?  We need to get out of here, don't you understand?  Out of this house!

ELLEN	Martin, what-
MARTIN	It's simply too dangerous here! But no, you always have to have it your way.

MARTIN	You know what I have to do now, and believe me:  I don't enjoy doing this.
ELLEN	Martin, damnit, what are you up to? Let go of me!

MARTIN	Of course you'll give me the blame again.  Like back then.  Just a tiny cut and he could still be alive today - isn't that right, Ellen?
ELLEN	What are you talking about-

MARTIN	Oh, Ellen.  My sweet Ellen... Of course I knew.
ELLEN	We loved each other once.  Have you forgotten that?

MARTIN	I told you, there is no way out. He won't let you go.
ELLEN	'HE'?  Whom do you mean-

MARTIN	It's important - he knows the last chapter.
ELLEN	Your book - that's why you were always in the cellar!

MARTIN	You know, Tommi wants me to become the man I used to be.
ELLEN	...So he's dictating you a new bestseller?  Whatever that is, it's not our son.

ELLEN	What?
MARTIN	I have a yearning for... smog, cars and many, many people... A real dirty... big city. What do you think?

MARTIN	How did you get me out of there?
ELLEN	I wouldn't have made it by myself.

MARTIN	For God's sake, what happened to me?
ELLEN	You don't remember?

ELLEN	Ellen.
MRS. LINDNER	You're doing fine, aren't you?  I mean... the two of you alone in that house, so far out in the moor.

MRS. LINDNER	Oh, Ellen!  I've been wondering when you'd come.  Why don't you step in.
ELLEN	Thank you.

ELLEN	I really hate to bother him, but...
MRS. LINDNER	Oh no, no.  You're not bothering him.  He has lots of time since he's been retired.

MRS. LINDNER	Frank Kosinski.  Here's the address.  Go see him.  Ask him.
ELLEN	Thank you.  Elisabeth, I didn't mean to...

MRS. LINDNER	That's alright.  Don't misunderstand my husband.  It's only that he's already had enough problems with this case. And who would believe him if he told the truth?
ELLEN	But what is the truth?
MRS. LINDNER	I don't know all about what happened back then.  But it always stood between me and my husband.

ELLEN	Hello.  Can I help you?
LINDNER	Does this dog here belong to you?

ELLEN	No, I've never seen him before.
LINDNER	You know, I saw him sitting outside your gate...  Oh, I'm sorry, I'm forgetting my manners again!  I haven't even introduced myself yet. Hi, my name's Lindner. Karl Lindner.

ELLEN	Ellen Straub.
LINDNER	It's a pleasure.  You're from the city, right?
ELLEN	Do I look like it that much?
LINDNER	Village gossip.  You're a real attraction here.

LINDNER	I guess it's too lonely for most folks.  It's time for me to get going. It's been a pleasure meeting you.
ELLEN	Wait, won't you join me for a cup of coffee?

LINDNER	You know, after doing that job for so many years, you learn to appreciate the simple things in life.  Flowers incorporate a beauty that I always missed in life.  But certainly, you're not here to chat about my hobbies.
ELLEN	1976.  What happened back then?

LINDNER	Do yourself a favor:  Don't ask.
ELLEN	I appreciate your concern, but we live in that house.  I need to know what happened in there.

ELLEN	Listen, it's one thing to have a guilt complex. But I know the difference between when I'm overstrung and when I'm seeing things that are simply not there! Besides, it only began after we moved!
PROF. ROTH	There is, of course, another possible explanation which I dearly hope is not the case.

ELLEN	And that is?
PROF. ROTH	A tumor - which could cause pressure on certain parts of the brain and, thus, influence your perception.

PROF. ROTH	Mrs. Straub!
ELLEN	I've killed my husband!
PROF. ROTH	What?
ELLEN	I think I've killed him.  Martin, my husband, I've killed him!  That is, I'm not sure, but...

ELLEN	It all went so fast.  He was out of his mind and then all of sudden there was this screwdriver.  I only wanted to defend myself.  You have to call the police...
PROF. ROTH	We can do all of that later, but first you need to calm down.

LINDNER	Oh, Mrs. Straub.  May I introduce you to my wife?
MRS. LINDNER	Just call me Elisabeth.

LINDNER	Stop scaring people.  Let's go. We need to be on our way.
MRS. LINDNER	Excuse us.  But do stop by for a visit sometime!  You are welcome anytime.

MRS. LINDNER	You didn't tell her!
LINDNER	We should leave the past alone.
MRS. LINDNER	Well, it will never leave us alone as long as you ignore it.

LINDNER	I think it's starting again. You know... there was something peculiar.  If only I knew...
MRS. LINDNER	Peculiar?  You mean, like back then?
LINDNER	Yes, something was...

MRS. LINDNER	Hammer?
LINDNER	How could I fail to notice that! - I have to go...

PAUL	Well, look here!
MARTIN	Ladies and gentlemen: The "Straub country-residence".

PAUL	Damn, this thing is heavy. Where do you want to have it?
MARTIN	Tenth floor.
PAUL	Very funny.

MARTIN	Look at this.  The lock is totally demolished.
PAUL	I guess someone lost their key. You did get your tetanus shots, I hope?

MARTIN	Twenty-three, to be exact.
PAUL	I wonder how you guys figure on renovating this whole place.  You can afford to spend some money.  If I was you, I'd spare myself all the hard work.  Besides, didn't you want to start writing again?

PAUL	Hey, my man!  How's the masterpiece coming along?
MARTIN	Not so bad, if I could get some peace and quiet around here.

UNCLE AL	Holy-jumped-up-baldheaded-Jesus-CHRIST!
JANE	Uncle Al-

JANE	If Father Lowe is an innocent little lamb, why hasn't he picked up the telephone and called Constable Haller to tell him Marty's sending poison-pen letters?
UNCLE AL	I don't accept the idea that he knows who his letter writer is, Jane. Because I don't accept the idea that there was a big bad wolf who saw Marty in his wheelchair.
JANE	Why hasn't he picked up the phone and told Constable Haller that someone is sending him poison-pen letters?

UNCLE AL	Lowe's car-?
JANE	Blue. This blue.
UNCLE AL	Jesus.

UNCLE AL	Would you kids mind telling me how this guy Lowe became a werewolf to begin with?
JANE	I don't know. Maybe he doesn't know, either.

UNCLE AL	Can I tell you kids something?
JANE	Sure, Uncle Al.
UNCLE AL	When me and sissy were kids, we were just like you two.

JANE	The moon's not down yet...
UNCLE AL	Damn near. Now I'll sit up with this stupid gun in my lap because I promised, but you two are going to bed. Go on, now, scoot.

JANE	You always take his side because he's a cripple! Well, it's not my fault that he's a cripple!
MARTY	Come on, Jane- it was Brady's idea. I couldn't stop him.
JANE	Brady's a booger and so are you!

MARTY	Did he really get his head cut off, Dad? That's what Brady said.
JANE	If you don't stop it I'm going to vomit. I mean it.

JANE	What's the money for?
MARTY	A new pair of panty hose. Is it enough?
JANE	I don't want your money. You're a booger.
MARTY	It was Brady's idea, Jane. Honest to God. Please take the money. I want to make up.

MARTY	Mom was really mad at him this time, wasn't she?
JANE	What do you expect, when he comes in smelling like a brewery and looking like an unmade bed?
MARTY	Stop it!

MARTY	Yes. Go away.
JANE	Let me help you up.

JANE	Marty? You okay? You've just been sitting here all morning.
MARTY	Where's Mom?
JANE	Went shopping. Why?
MARTY	Jane, I have to talk to you.

MARTY	Jane... you don't have to do that.
JANE	Don't tell me what I have to do and what I don't, booger-brains.
MARTY	Will you marry me, Jane?

MARTY	Please, Uncle Al.
JANE	Will you?

JANE	Don't you touch me, snotbrains!
MARTY	Jane-

JANE	Are you all right, Marty?
MARTY	All except my legs... I don't think I can walk.
JANE	You're a real booger, you know it?

TAMMY	You booger.
MARTY	That's what my sister says, too. Pretty soon I'm going to start checking the mirror to see if I'm turning green.

MARTY	Not bad, huh? My Uncle Al took off the regular muffler and put on a Cherry Bomb.
TAMMY	What's that?
MARTY	Glasspack. He said he'd come over sometime this summer and we'd soup up the engine... but now I dunno. He's getting a divorce and he's in the doghouse with my mother.
TAMMY	For getting a divorce?
MARTY	Well... it is his third.

TAMMY	I used to see her every day, and she never knew what was going to happen to her, and neither did I! I mean I know how stupid that sounds, but...
MARTY	Hey, take it easy. I know how you feel.

TAMMY	There's something else scary.
MARTY	What?

TAMMY	I've been hearing noises in there.
MARTY	What kind of noises?
TAMMY	Rattling. Rustling.
MARTY	Rats...
TAMMY	And my dad says it's kids. But it's not rats and it's not kids. It's-

TAMMY	Well, it's probably nothing. I'm just spooked since... you know.
MARTY	Yeah... but if you hear any more noises, tell your father. Okay?
TAMMY	Okay. Have you got enough gas to get home, Marty?

UNCLE AL	Ralph Houk! You can't bet a manager! Stone the crows!
MARTY	Okay, okay. Dwight Evans.
UNCLE AL	Piss on him. Piss on all the Red Sox.

MARTY	Mom-!
UNCLE AL	Let the boy finish the game, Nan.

UNCLE AL	You all right, Marty?
MARTY	Yeah.
UNCLE AL	There's a saying- so-and-so was better than a poke in the eye with a sharp stick. You ever hear that one?
MARTY	No.
UNCLE AL	Well, I'm not sure that was. Christ! They better get the guy.
MARTY	Uncle Al, what if it's not a guy?
UNCLE AL	Huh?
MARTY	What if it's some kind of monster?

MARTY	What's going on at Owen's, Uncle Al?
UNCLE AL	A bunch of men getting ready to pretend they're Clint Eastwood... Marty, didn't anybody ever tell you that the only monsters are in comic books and drive-in movies?

MARTY	It isn't enough that the monster killed all those people- that he killed Brady. Now he's got them to cancel the fair.
UNCLE AL	And the fireworks. Hand me that box, Marty.

MARTY	Yeah, okay, the fireworks. Jane thinks that's all I'm mad about, but it's not. Them doing that is just a... a...
UNCLE AL	It's just an outward symbol of everything that's inwardly wrong in this town. Not bad, huh? I read Sherwood Anderson in college. I can jive that shit all day.
MARTY	Well... I like it that you always know how to say things, Uncle Al.
UNCLE AL	I'll give you the telephone numbers of my ex-wives, dear boy- they'll be interested to hear that.
MARTY	Don't call me dear boy.
UNCLE AL	But you are, you know- you are my dear boy.

UNCLE AL	Your mom's not around, is she?
MARTY	She and dad are out back lighting the barbecue. Jane's walking around like she's King Shit of Turd Mountain. Like always.
UNCLE AL	Uh-huh. Only in her case I guess it would be Queen Shit of Turd Mountain. Hand me that adjustable.

UNCLE AL	Yeah, Winesburg, Ohio, was never like that... but I got something that just might cheer you up.
MARTY	What?
UNCLE AL	Wait, dear boy. Just wait. Hand me those pliars.

UNCLE AL	You got a pilot's license, Marty?
MARTY	Do I need one?
UNCLE AL	We're gonna find out. Take it down the road a ways and back. Be careful.

UNCLE AL	You gave me a heart attack, Marty. I'm dying. I hope you're happy, because you are looking at a dying man.
MARTY	It really goes fast. Thanks, Uncle Al.
UNCLE AL	It goes fast, all right- and if your mother finds out just how fast, Marty, I will have a new job. Singing soprano with the Vienna Boys' Choir.
MARTY	I don't get you.
UNCLE AL	I know you don't. But I want this to be our secret. You get that, don't you?
MARTY	Sure.
UNCLE AL	Good.

UNCLE AL	Now I said I had something for you, as I believe you will recall.
MARTY	Yeah! What is it?

UNCLE AL	Stay near the house, for Christ's sake- someone's killing people. I have to be out of my mind to be doing this, you know.
MARTY	Yeah, I know. It's great!
UNCLE AL	One of the reasons I love you, Marty, is that you're almost as crazy as I am. Please don't set off anything that goes bang tonight, okay? Just bright colors. Can you tell the difference?
MARTY	Yeah... sure.
UNCLE AL	Save this one for last.

MARTY	What is it?
UNCLE AL	A tracer. You'll like it.
MARTY	Thanks a million, Uncle Al!
UNCLE AL	You're welcome a million, Marty. Stick 'em in the bushes for now.

MARTY	It came for me! I shot it in the eye! Now he's wearing an eye-patch!
UNCLE AL	I called Peltzer on my way over here, Marty! Father Lowe came into the drugstore two days ago for a bottle of otic solution. That's a fancy way of saying eyewash. He's got a corneal inflammation.
MARTY	Was it a prescription?
UNCLE AL	What the hell does that matter?
MARTY	It wasn't- I'll bet you it wasn't. Because to get a prescription he'd have to see a doctor.
UNCLE AL	Marty, Marty, you should hear yourself!
MARTY	Well... was it a prescription?
UNCLE AL	I don't know. But I know you didn't see any werewolf the other night, Marty. You had a dream, that's all. An extremely realistic nightmare brought on by what's been happening in this town.
MARTY	What about the baseball bat Jane saw in his shed? You know who used to have a baseball bat like that? Mr. Knopfler! He was so proud of it he used to carry it in the Fourth of July parade! Jane said it looked like the Green Giant used it for a toothpick!
UNCLE AL	You want to know what I think?
MARTY	No- we just got you out here so we could admire your pretty face.
UNCLE AL	Watch it, dear boy. I think it was a hallucination. Probably a broomstick, or something.

MARTY	I'll bet you a quarter that eyewash stuff was nonprescription. And I'll bet you another quarter he hasn't said anything to Mr. Haller.
UNCLE AL	Marty, do you see your suspect?

UNCLE AL	Do you really think that a man who took a rocket in the eye three nights ago could be out mowing his lawn? He'd either be in the hospital... or dead.
MARTY	I didn't shoot him when he was a man. I shot him when he was-
UNCLE AL	When he was a werewolf. Yes. Right. Jesus. Jane, you don't really believe this madness, do you?

UNCLE AL	Well... it's a lot easier to swallow without the hair and the foaming jaws. Also, I checked on the otic solution. It was counter brand. No prescription needed.
MARTY	I told you!
UNCLE AL	Shut up, dear boy- no gloating allowed.

UNCLE AL	After Marty called me with his latest Thrilling Tale of Wonder, I did.  He's had no poison-pen complaints lodged at all.
MARTY	I told you!

UNCLE AL	No... but I found some blood, smeared on a tree trunk in that grove.
MARTY	There! You see!
UNCLE AL	It could have been anything, Marty.
MARTY	What about Father Lowe chasing me in his car and trying to run me down? You don't think that was a dream, do you?
UNCLE AL	No.

MARTY	Mr. Haller said he'd check him out, and guess what? No one sees him again!
UNCLE AL	And what do you suggest I do about it, dear boy?

MARTY	I want you to turn this into a silver bullet.
UNCLE AL	You're not going to let it go, are you?
MARTY	I saw what I saw.
UNCLE AL	Marty, the moon wasn't even full!

MARTY	No one knows how cancer begins, either- or exactly what it is- but people still believe in it.
UNCLE AL	The kid is eleven years old and already he sounds like a Jesuit. A French Jesuit.
MARTY	I think he's going to come for me. Not just because I know who he is, but because I hurt him. Only I don't think he'll try again as Lowe.
UNCLE AL	Dear boy, you have gone right out of your mind.
MARTY	Will you do it?

MARTY	Yeah? Really?
UNCLE AL	Yeah. Really. The bitch of it is, we still are. Learn from your elders, dearies.

UNCLE AL	I suppose so. You kids ought to go up to bed.
MARTY	But Uncle Al! You said-
UNCLE AL	I know what I said, Marty- but it's ten past one. He's not coming.

MARTY	What if I say no?
UNCLE AL	Then I'd have to kick your ass, dear boy.  Go on, now.

UNCLE AL	I come here because Marty needs a friend.
NAN	Yes... you've always been that to him. But if you can't leave your booze in whatever dump you call home, you better just stay away.

NAN	So have I, actually... I wish it could always be like this.
UNCLE AL	See me around to my car, Marty, and make sure I stay out of trouble at least that long.

NAN	Remember, Al... we'll be at the Ritz-Carlton in Boston tomorrow night! Or at the funeral parlor. It's Stickney and-
UNCLE AL	-and Babcock, I remember. Now go on!

NAN	And don't open the door for any trick or treaters even if they come!
UNCLE AL	We won't!

NAN	You kids go to bed on time! You've got school tomorrow!
UNCLE AL	If you keep doing that, you're going to bump your head, sissy. Give my love to Mama- tell her I'll see her Thursday.
NAN	I will- be good, kids.

CHURCH	Improved...how?
MEKUM	As I said, in every way.  Physically and psychologically.  More endurance, quicker responses, better hand-eye, improved technical training.  Where the First Psychology gave you ninety-eight percent obedience, this bunch gives you 99.4.
CHURCH	Mmmmmm.  Weeell, you know my old daddy was in maintenance and he had a saying...

CHURCH	...He used to say, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
MEKUM	I...see.  I'm not sure I quite get your...point...
CHURCH	Well, the soldiers we've got now, they've been through all kinds of heavy shit...and they've always got the job done.  Now these new ones, these "hot shots" of yours...what kind of action have they seen?  They <u>are</u> battle-tested, aren't they?
MEKUM	That's up to you field guys.  H.Q. wants you to break 'em in when you do the annual security sweep in January.
CHURCH	The sweep is just routine, not even police action.  I'd like to see some sort of...meaningful evidence...
MEKUM	Such as?
CHURCH	Maybe we could run some tests.  Kind of a comparison, the old and the new...

MEKUM	Melton, on the double!  Up a chain!                                   MELTON  Sir!     MELTON takes a few easy strides, gracefully catches a chain mid- stride, and smarts up, climbing easily and twice as fast as TODD.     CHURCH, SLOAN, and RUBRICK crane their necks as the two men struggle upward toward the rafters.     Three quarters of the way up, MELTON comes even with TODD, then passes him. MEKUM, watching, smirks.     CHURCH is watching too, and he's still not satisfied.  His brow is knit, something's bothering him.     ANGLE HIGH ABOVE, AMONG THE GIRDERS     Stonefaced, MELTON is resting an a "platform" on the chain, sixty feet up, beneath the girders, swaying gently.     His stony gaze is on the next chain where TODD is arriving at a "platform" on an adjacent chain...only three feet away.     Their eyes meet, TODD and MELTON alone together sixty feet up, three feet apart.  Neither man blinks, neither man flinches, neither man reveals anything at all...     LOW ANGLE, LOOKING UP     CHURCH considers the men high above, then to MEKUM.                                   CHURCH                    What about...spirit?
MEKUM	Spirit?                          Oh!  You mean "AQ"..."aggressive qualities"?
CHURCH	Whatever the latest jargon is.                                   MEKUM Much better, much higher.  For example, where your old ones expressed ninety percent of their sexual energy in aggressive physicality, these new ones are ninety-nine percent without sexual inclination.  It's <u>all</u> aggression.                                   SLOAN                          <u>Real</u> men!                                   CHURCH                          At ease, Lieutenant.                          What if they fought?     A sudden silence.     SLOAN raises her eyebrows, gives RUBRICK a look.     Frowning thoughtfully, MEKUM looks up. MEKUM You mean up there?                                   CHURCH                                             Go ahead, Rube.  Tell Todd to take him. MEKUM No!     They all look at MEKUM.  Is this the chink in the armor?  The new soldiers can't fight?                                   CHURCH                    "No"? MEKUM Not fair.  No contest.  Send two more of your old ones up.     Now CHURCH, RUBRICK, and SLOAN are stunned.  They exchange a glance.                                   MEKUM Go ahead.

ARTHUR	Captain, open the hatch door, please ... the hatch door, Captain.  Open it, please.
BARNES	Calm down, Dr. Levine.
ARTHUR	Let me out, Captain.  Open the door!
BARNES	Please, Dr. Levine.

BARNES	... Your civil rights have been overridden!
ARTHUR	Open it, Captain!
BARNES	Dr. Levine, please!  Return to your seat!

BARNES	Fletcher?  What are you doing out there?
FLETCHER	They're like pink snow, sir.  Sticky.

FLETCHER	They're warm.  I can feel the heat on my legs.
BARNES	Fletcher, I want you back here.

BARNES	Fletcher, get away from there...
FLETCHER	It's burning...
BARNES	Get out of there!
FLETCHER	I can't see...
BARNES	Fletcher!  Now!
FLETCHER	I can't...

BETH	How big is this spacecraft?
BARNES	Of what we're able to measure, roughly twenty-six hundred feet.

BETH	In basic English, what does all this mean?
BARNES	Basic English?  There's no way this spacecraft was constructed on our planet.

BETH	There's heat coming the door.
BARNES	Back away then.
BETH	Wait a minute --
BARNES	I said back away.
BETH	Would you wait a minute?

BETH	Hold on --
BARNES	What is it?
BETH	Any of you get ahead of me -- walk this far up?

BARNES	Alright, Beth, do that thing you did before.
BETH	How about I just press the button?

BETH	Not everything.  Even on earth.  Take ... yeasts.
BARNES	Yeasts?  Thank you, Beth, but I don't think we're gonna open it up and find a loaf of bread.

BETH	I am not leaving without him.  Do you hear me?  We come down as a team, we leave as a team.
BARNES	What are you -- his mother?  Get Norman, I want everyone ready to go.  Edmunds, the subs?

BETH	Norman!
BARNES	Edmunds, do you have a 20 on Norman?

BARNES	The surface ships will be back. After the storm clears.
BETH	How long will that be?

BARNES	They told me about sixty hours.
BETH	Two and a half days?

BARNES	Back at the door -- I asked you to back away.
BETH	Yeah.  I heard you.
BARNES	There are procedures, Beth, that I want followed.  My procedures.  And considering what's going on, I want you to follow them very closely.
BETH	Forgive me.  I've never read the Navy manual.  I wonder what it says about bathroom and shower procedures.

BARNES	Nobody move.
BETH	But she's --
BARNES	Nobody move!

BETH	I'm not sure.  I've never seen anything like it.
BARNES	You're a fucking biochemist, aren't you?  Can't you tell us something.

BETH	Nice work, Captain sir.
BARNES	Shut up, Beth.  I don't want to hear it.

BARNES	Direction's east coming!
BETH	What was that?

BARNES	A squid?  The size of a whale?  I don't think so.  Target acquired.  Sixty yards.
BETH	What if it attacks?
BARNES	Fifty yards and closing.
BETH	What do we use for defense?
BARNES	We're a habitat.  Not a castle.  The only defense we have is High Voltage.
BETH	High Voltage?
BARNES	It sends 200 volts throughout the cylinder surface.  But we've never used it underwater before.
BARNES	Forty yards.
BETH	But you've tested it?
BARNES	Sure.  Each time it started fires inside the habitat.
BARNES	Thirty yards.
BETH	What are you saying -- we can't stop what's out there?

BETH	Where is it?
BARNES	Why can't I -- ?  What the hell is going on here?

BETH	What was that?
BARNES	He's right beneath us.

BARNES	Increase positive pressure!
BETH	That's our reserve air.
BARNES	It's either that or we grow gills.

BETH	Don't do it, Norman!
BARNES	Do you see it?

BETH	Don't pull it, Norman.  It'll start a <u>fire</u> we can't stop.  Norman?
BARNES	Do it, Norman, it's the only choice we have.  This thing is gonna crush us.
BETH	Norman, don't do it!

BETH	Don't do it!
BARNES	Now!

BETH	Norman, please!  Don't!
BARNES	Pull it, damn it!

NORMAN	Thank you, Colonel.
BARNES	Captain.
NORMAN	Captain.  Right, forgive me.

NORMAN	Well, thanks for the opportuninty here -- my wife appreciates it.
BARNES	Don't thank me, Dr. Johnson.  You weren't my choice.  The Pentagon made me take you.
NORMAN	The Pentagon?  I didn't know I had friends in Washington.

BARNES	Come with me.  The team's already waiting.
NORMAN	What team?

BARNES	What have you been told so far?
NORMAN	The usual.  Plane crash.  Survivers unknown.  Routine stuff really.
BARNES	Anything else?
NORMAN	Nothing else.

BARNES	You talk to any reporters?  Any press?
NORMAN	Press?  No, I haven't.

BARNES	Good.  Security's been our biggest worry.  Now that you're here we can shut this thing down tight.
NORMAN	From what?  What's with all the security?
BARNES	Well, we don't have all the facts yet.

BARNES	We're moving fast considering the storm.
NORMAN	Storm?  What storm?
BARNES	A cyclone's on it's way in.  I thought they would have told you on the phone.
NORMAN	They didn't tell me anything.

NORMAN	How deep is he?
BARNES	A thousand feet.
NORMAN	A thousand?  An airplane crashes into a thousand feet of water -- I don't want to sound pessimistic here, but I assume there are no survivors.
BARNES	Survivors?  No, I wouldn't think so.
NORMAN	Then why am I here?
BARNES	What?
NORMAN	What do you need me for?

NORMAN	What is it?  A military spacecraft? Like a shuttle or satellite?
BARNES	Something like that.  That doesn't surprise you?
NORMAN	Not really, no.  Something of the military crashes in the ocean -- it explains why there was nothing on the news, why you've kept everything a secret...  When did it crash?
BARNES	As best we can estimate, it crashed four hundred years ago.

BARNES	See this?  Coral.  Geologists measured the coral growth on top of the craft to be over five meters thick.
NORMAN	Geologists?
BARNES	Coral grows at a rate of two and a half centimeters a year --
NORMAN	-- Wait a second --
BARNES	-- dating the crash at least that old.
NORMAN	Hold on --
BARNES	Maybe older --
NORMAN	-- there's got to be some mistake here -- a four hundred year old military spacecraft?  There's no such thing... our space program isn't even forty years old.
BARNES	Extraordinary, isn't it?
NORMAN	It's impossible.
BARNES	I'm afraid it is Dr. Johnson... because it's sitting on the bottom of our ocean floor.

BARNES	Off the record, I don't mind telling you, this thing scares the shit out of me.
NORMAN	It doesn't make any sense.
BARNES	We think it might.  That's why we brought you here.  We've assembled your team -- they're waiting for us now.
NORMAN	What team?
BARNES	The one you recommended.  In the ULF report you wrote for the Bush administration.
NORMAN	ULF report?  Nobody's mentioned that in years.  You mean someone actually read it?

BARNES	Your report's become our bible down here, Dr. Johnson.  We've been carrying out each of your recommendations -- one by one -- to the smallest detail.
NORMAN	But sir, I don't understand.  This report -- these recommendations... they're for an encounter with extra- terrestrial life.

BARNES	They pressurize us with helium.
NORMAN	What's wrong with oxygen?
BARNES	It's a corrosive gas.  On earth, it makes a half-eaten apple turn brown and puts the ugly, iron rust on an Oldsmobile.  At a pressure this low, oxygen becomes toxic.  Breathe it down here, and it'll do to your dick what it does to the Oldsmobile.

BARNES	What is it, Norman?
NORMAN	Take a look.

NORMAN	Picked up something?  What is it?
BARNES	I don't know.  But it's something alien.

NORMAN	Maybe we shouldn't.
BARNES	What?
NORMAN	If it is alien, maybe we shouldn't try to open it at all.

BARNES	Like "Thou shall not kill"?
NORMAN	Or maybe, it can't <u>be</u> killed.
BARNES	You mean, what's in that thing is immortal?
NORMAN	I don't know.  That's the point.
BARNES	Everything can be killed.

BARNES	Don't get hysterical, Norman.
NORMAN	I'm telling you, Harry's lost it. He's saying there's a deathwish out for each of us.
BARNES	Look, the ships are clearing out. They're taking us topside in a matter of minutes.  Someone can check him out there, if it's that imprtant.
NORMAN	All I'm saying is, someone should keep an eye on him.
BARNES	Just worry about yourself.

NORMAN	Harry's missing.
BARNES	What do you mean, he's missing?
NORMAN	He's missing.  He's gone.  He left.
BARNES	He's here somewhere.  Find him.  The sub's on it's way.  Go!  C'mon!

NORMAN	You can't just leave Harry down here, sir.
BARNES	I told you people, nobody goes anywhere unless I say.
NORMAN	But sir --
BARNES	No "buts".  If he wants to be left, we'll leave him.  Hello?  Yes, the subs -- I want a report...  Hello...  Yes, a report. Gimme... shit.

NORMAN	I'm not paranoid.  I know Beth.  She can be drastic.
BARNES	How drastic?
NORMAN	You don't want to know.
BARNES	I think I do.
NORMAN	A while back, Beth and I -- we worked at the same university.  She was assisting a chemist there -- I forget his name -- doing research, experiments.  She was also living with him.  Yeah, I know.  And when she finished her work, he kicked her out, broke off the relationship, and published five papers -- all her work -- without any thank you or acknowledgement.
BARNES	She should've known better.
NORMAN	She put a razor to her wrists a day later.
BARNES	When was this?
NORMAN	'81, I think.  She tried again five years ago.  I thought you should know.
BARNES	So you knew this when you wrote your report?
NORMAN	At the time, I don't know, I thought putting her on the list -- it might help her career -- catch her a break.
BARNES	You knowingly recommended a woman with suicidal tendencies for a government operation --
NORMAN	Wait a second --
BARNES	-- and then brought her down here --
NORMAN	-- I didn't know it would come to this --
BARNES	-- without a cautionary word to anyone.  You know, Ted said something to me earlier.  I think he's right.  He said, "When you got a guy who -- if he wasn't here -- he'd be standing in the unemployment line, you gotta question if you got the right guy."

BARNES	He translated it wrong.  "My name is Jerry"?  It's like "See Spot run."
NORMAN	The message doesn't show a lack of intelligence.  It's smart.  It's approaching us in a simple way.  Like you would a dog.  Holding out your hand, letting it sniff, get used to you.
BARNES	What am I -- a dog, now?

BARNES	Great, okay.  Ask him about his weapons.
NORMAN	That's smart.  Let's talk about guns and violence.
BARNES	You don't think weapons are important?
NORMAN	I think we should be careful. Consider his emotional response.

BARNES	Edmunds?
NORMAN	Because if Jerry is powerful and also emotional...
BARNES	Damn it, Edmunds?
NORMAN	... it raises a very serious question: <u>What happens if Jerry</u> <u>gets mad</u>?
BARNES	Edmunds?  Can you copy?

NORMAN	What for?
BARNES	If something should happen to us, the Navy will at least have partial records of what happened.
NORMAN	At least our obituaries will be accurate.  That's reassuring.

BARNES	I don't want you talking to Jerry.
NORMAN	But sir, I think it's imperative.  I think the messages, the animals we've seen, what killed Edmunds, the reading you got earlier -- I think they're all related.

BARNES	You think he killed Edmunds?
NORMAN	Yes, I do.  Whatever's out there, I think is his response to us refusing to talk to him earlier.
BARNES	Bullshit.  What's out there isn't alien.  It's an animal.
NORMAN	Maybe so.  But I think we need to ask Jerry about it.
BARNES	No.  I think we should shut down the communication lines inside the habitat.  He might be listening now.

BARNES	Going active.
NORMAN	Jerry?

BARNES	What the hell?  It shut us down.
NORMAN	Jerry?  Please.  Stop this.
BARNES	Ted, go into the control room. Listen for my instructions.

NORMAN	Yes, sir.  I'm here.
BARNES	You see the lever on the green box? Upper right hand corner?

NORMAN	I see it.
BARNES	Pull it.

BARNES	Can you open that panel?
EDMUNDS	Working on it now, sir.

EDMUNDS	It's not sucking, sir.
BARNES	Thank you, I can see that.  Try something else.
EDMUNDS	We don't have anything else to try, Sir.
BARNES	Well, shit -- find something, do something... make something up --

BARNES	What caused it?
EDMUNDS	Nothing.  I don't know.  Everything was normal.  No changes at all.

BARNES	Get him out of there.  I thought I told you people --
EDMUNDS	Harry?  Can you copy?

EDMUNDS	Subs are still at surface, sir.
BARNES	Send them, damn it!  I know, but I'm not gonna be held responsible --

EDMUNDS	I'm getting no sub reading, sir.
BARNES	They're coming.

BARNES	Any sign of Harry?
EDMUNDS	Nothing, sir.
BARNES	Fuck him.  What?  Hello?

EDMUNDS	Nothing, sir.
BARNES	What the hell is going on here?

EDMUNDS	Yes, sir.
BARNES	Well, where the fuck is he?
EDMUNDS	In the ship, sir.

EDMUNDS	Sir, if the subs haven't left by now...
BARNES	They've left, keep watching!
EDMUNDS	Sir!  Sir, the door -- it's opening.

BARNES	Norman, get out of there now! Norman?
EDMUNDS	If the subs aren't here yet, sir --

BARNES	Edmunds, get in here.  I need you for this.
EDMUNDS	In a minute, sir.

HARRY	How much damage?
BARNES	To the craft?  None.  Not a scratch.
HARRY	Right.  So you're saying it survived a high speed impact with water without a scratch?
BARNES	I'm not saying anything, Harry, I'm just stating the facts.  The outer metal is made of a titanium alloy, built into an epoxy- resin honeycomb.  The necessary technology to bond this type of metal has never been invented.

BARNES	It's chipped.
HARRY	Chipped?  The door?  How can it be chipped?
BARNES	I don't know how it can be chipped, but it's chipped.
HARRY	I thought you said there wasn't any damage done in the crash?
BARNES	I did.
HARRY	Then how can it be chipped?

HARRY	Ted?  Captain?
BARNES	Yes, Harry.
HARRY	We know how this craft got here. Where it's been.
BARNES	So do we.  And it seems to have picked up something on it's travels.

HARRY	No.  They don't represent a message. They aren't decorative at all.  They have another purpose entirely.
BARNES	What?
HARRY	To conceal a small break in the surface of the sphere.
BARNES	A break for what?

BARNES	So how do we get it open?
HARRY	Ted seems to have some ideas.

HARRY	Man is man, all he knows is man, and all he can think of is what he knows.  The anthropomorphic problem. Good, Norman.
BARNES	The what?

BARNES	So?  What's the problem?
HARRY	It's nonsense.  There's enough difference between our own species to prove that.

BARNES	Or it could contain some great benefit to us, some astonishing new idea or technology to help mankind.
HARRY	It could.  But the odds of it being any use to us are against it.
BARNES	You don't know that.
HARRY	Let's say whoever made this thing is a thousand years ahead of us, just like we are to, say, medieval Europe.  Suppose you went back to medieval Europe with a TV set.  There wouldn't be any place to plug it in.
BARNES	Just tell me worst case.  Worst case of what we might find?

BARNES	Gimme a report, I want --
HARRY	Ladies and Gentlemen...
BARNES	Who is that?  Where's that coming from?
HARRY	Please watch your closest monitor...

HARRY	It's a single sequence repeated over and over.
BARNES	We're all very proud of you, Harry, but what the hell is it?

HARRY	... spiralling out of the center, you see: "G" is one, "B" is two, "H" is three, and so on... when I got the message.
BARNES	What's the message?
HARRY	I have to tell you.  It's strange.
BARNES	How do you mean, strange?

BARNES	Ignorant.  The thing's ignorant.
HARRY	It's not ignorant.

BARNES	Are you enjoying yourself, Harry, because I don't know what the hell you're doing.
HARRY	He understands me fine.

BARNES	Not now, Beth.  Please.  I want to know who we're talking to before we start talking.  Where's Edmunds?
HARRY	She's not gonna know, sir.

BARNES	What?
HARRY	He's saying, "Take me to your leader." He wants to know who's in charge.
BARNES	I'm in charge.

BARNES	With an "o".  Harold with an "o".
HARRY	What -- you want me to retype it?

BARNES	Edmunds?  Get in here.  I want to know exactly how this is being transmitted.
HARRY	She's not gonna know.
BARNES	She wired this system.
HARRY	If the technology of that sphere is advanced enough -- the way it functions is gonna appear to us like magic.

TED	A half a mile long?
BARNES	The wing dimension alone is larger that any aircraft we've seen.

TED	Captain, you know, I really appreciate you hauling us a thousand feet below sea level so we can watch this historical event on television.
BARNES	Nobody goes inside, until we know <u>what's</u> inside.

TED	I'd also like it noted --
BARNES	Duly noted, Ted.  Edmunds, try using suction.

BARNES	What <u>about</u> a crowbar?
TED	What if we go out there, you know -- wedge a crowbar in the door and pry the thing open.

BARNES	Ted, get her away from the door.
TED	What are you going to do -- shoot her?

TED	Look at this.
BARNES	What is it?

TED	Some sort of lead or something.
BARNES	Radiation shield, you think?
TED	A foot and a half thick?  That'd withstand a helluva lot of radiation.

TED	What's wrong?
BARNES	What do you make of this?

BARNES	We had considered it.
TED	Considered what?  That it's American? How would you think it's American?

TED	Time travel.  I always thought it was one of those myths... like Santa's reindeer.
BARNES	What would we be working on in the future that would make us want to come back?
TED	Maybe we didn't want to come back.

BARNES	But what does it do?  This... sphere.
TED	Maybe it's a message of some sort, you know?  See this red here.

TED	Can I stay, sir?  I'm willing to risk it.  I am.  After what we just witnessed.
BARNES	What?  No, I know they're civilians...

TED	Did you hear me, sir, because --
BARNES	Ted, shut up.  Are you packed?  Ready to go?  I want everyone packed.  Now!

BARNES	How can he be missing?
TED	Sir, about leaving --
BARNES	We're on the bottom of the fucking ocean -- he can't just walk outside!

BARNES	They switched us over.
TED	To what?
BARNES	Internal power.

TED	She says jellyfish are a delicacy. You know, I never knew that.
BARNES	Get out of there.  I don't want anyone going anywhere outside, understood?

BARNES	From the sphere?
TED	What's inside the sphere.

BARNES	I want a name.  A real name.  This thing's full name, rank and serial number.
TED	Captain, I personally feel we should ask much more substantive questions --
BARNES	I am not gonna explain in some damn report that one person died in a deepsat expedition so we could meet an alien named Jerry.

BARNES	It's not talking, it's mimicking.
TED	Give him a chance.  He's speaking our language, not the other way around.

BARNES	Edmunds?
TED	Don't make stuff up, these emotional theories, just so you can feel important here.

TED	What is that?
BARNES	The sensors are picking up something outside.
TED	What?

BARNES	It won't register.  It's too big to image.
TED	Too big?

BARNES	Well, until we know exactly what it is, nobody goes outside, understood?
TED	What was Edmunds doing outside?
BARNES	Resetting the sub.
TED	What sub?
BARNES	In the dome hanger.  All our tapes are transferred to the sub.  It's on a 12 hour timer.  If someone doesn't reset the "delay" button, the sub ascends to the surface with the tapes.

NORMAN	Beth, look, can I trust you with a little secret?
BETH	I love secrets.
NORMAN	That ULF report everybody's patting me on the back about?
BETH	I've read it twice, Norman.  It's brilliant.
NORMAN	It's bullshit.  The report's a joke.
BETH	That's quite a secret.
NORMAN	I spent a week reading Sagan and watching re-runs of the Twilight Zone.  Seriously.  I was just trying to pay the mortgage on my house -- I had no idea --

BETH	Do yourself a favor, Norman.  Are you listening?  Don't tell anyone what you just told me.
NORMAN	C'mon, Beth -- that report's like the blind leading the blind.
BETH	Because when we get down there --
NORMAN	Wait -- down where?
BETH	To the spacecraft.  To investigate.
NORMAN	Underwater?
BETH	What do you expect?  For them to bring it up here?
NORMAN	We can't go down there.  We're not prepared.  That deep?  That takes years of training, Beth.  We're just scientists.  Lab scietists.  We wear ties and lab coats to work -- not oxygen tanks.
BETH	Well, you must have realized the chances an encounter like this would happen here.  In the ocean.  70 percent of the earth's surface is water, Norman.  That's first grade geography.
NORMAN	It never occurred to me.
BETH	Well, let's pray that's the only mistake you made.  Have you said anything to Barnes about this?
NORMAN	The timing has never seemed quite right.
BETH	Just keep your mouth shut, alright? This could mean everything to our careers, you know that?  Don't jeopardize this.
NORMAN	What -- are you threatening me?

BETH	Isn't there a psychological term for that, Dr. Johnson?
NORMAN	Yeah.  Drowning.

BETH	You're next, Norman.
NORMAN	No.  Go ahead.  Really.  Ladies first.
BETH	Such a gentlemen when you're scared shitless.

NORMAN	400 years ago?  I'm sure Christopher Columbus would've loved these accomodations.
BETH	Good theory, Ted.

BETH	Norman!
NORMAN	Get this thing off me.

BETH	It could breathe in air and exhale cyanide gas.
NORMAN	Disrupt our brain waves, interfere with our ability to think.

NORMAN	Where'd this come from?
BETH	The library.
NORMAN	We have a library?
BETH	A bad one.  It was the only book in there.  Norman, come here, look at this.
NORMAN	No, thank you.  I hate jellyfish.

NORMAN	... when I was six, my younger brother and I -- we went swimming in the Pacific.  At my mother's beach house.  We both felt stinging, and when we came out of the water, he was wearing jellyfish head to toe. Killed him.
BETH	My gosh, Norman.
NORMAN	Yeah, it was awful.
BETH	What about you?  What happened to you?
NORMAN	Me?  Well, I was wrapped in seaweed. It itched for a while, but I survived.  Beth, do you find it... curious that we're seeing all this life down here.  Nothing, and then these enormous flocks of squid.  Then jellyfish?
BETH	Normally, I'd say no.  Everything's quiet now -- no ships, no divers, no electricity.  Makes sense.  But what's curious is -- these aren't normal jellyfish.
NORMAN	What do you mean -- not normal?
BETH	They have six tentacles.  A new species.  And the squid too.  They had no stomach.
NORMAN	Wait a minute.
BETH	What?
NORMAN	You knew about the squid not being normal.  Before Fletcher went out there?
BETH	Yeah, why?
NORMAN	And you didn't tell anyone?

BETH	What?  Why...
NORMAN	Beth --
BETH	I mean, I'm not... I wasn't absolutely sure if... they --
NORMAN	They are or they aren't.  Which is it?
BETH	What?...  Wait.  Don't... why are you --
NORMAN	Beth.
BETH	Nobody said... Norman...  What?  Why are you looking at me like that?
NORMAN	Beth --

BETH	I didn't do anything wrong.  I didn't mean...
NORMAN	Beth.

NORMAN	I can't feel her bones.  She's like a sponge.
BETH	She was crushed.  Feel her skin -- it's like sandpaper.
NORMAN	What could have done this?

BETH	Norman.
NORMAN	What are they?
BETH	Eggs.

BETH	... He lied to us.  He left us down here.
NORMAN	C'mon, Beth.  Don't make this personal.  He told me himself they were taking us back.
BETH	Yeah, he <u>told</u> you.  Think.  What was Barnes doing before they cut that cable loose?  He was on the phone. Except that cable is a thousand feet long, Norman.  They would've broken off communication with us four, five minutes before they cleared out.
NORMAN	So what?
BETH	So who was Barnes talking to at the last minute?  Nobody.
NORMAN	You're jumping to conclusions, Beth. Don't get worked up --
BETH	Fuck you, Norman!  It's right here...

BETH	Although advised of risks, all personnel elect to remain down for duration of storm to continue investigation of alien sphere and associated spacecraft.  Signed, Barnes, USN.
NORMAN	Where did you get this?
BETH	In Edmunds' things.
NORMAN	You went through Edmunds' things?
BETH	He's not just a Navy captain -- he works for the fucking Pentagon.
NORMAN	Calm down, Beth.  Alright?
BETH	Don't tell me to calm down!
NORMAN	It's done, alright?  It's over!  And there's not a damn thing we can do about it now, okay?

BETH	You said something to him, didn't you?
NORMAN	What?
BETH	You told him about me?

NORMAN	Beth --
BETH	You did, didn't you?
NORMAN	Don't do this.
BETH	You bastard.
NORMAN	Beth, I didn't.  Hold it together. Alright?

BETH	Yeah, okay.  Sure, Norman.
NORMAN	Beth --
BETH	No, I should stay calm.  Like you say.  Right, Norman?  Stay calm.

NORMAN	Where are you going in such a hurry?
BETH	I have to reset the sub.

NORMAN	Forget the sub.
BETH	Don't bother me, Norman.
NORMAN	It's not worth the risk.
BETH	It's also our only way out of here! It holds three people.  And there's only three of us left now.
NORMAN	You, me and Harry?
BETH	You, me and Harry.  He's asleep.
NORMAN	Wake him, then.  Let's go.  Get outta --
BETH	We can't.  The storm.  The waves would toss us around worse than we got down here.  And we have four days of decompression when we get up top.
NORMAN	Four days?
BETH	Get the helium out of our bloodstream.  We go to the surface now, we'd pop like a soda bottle.

BETH	Maybe you should go.  To the sub.
NORMAN	Why should I go?
BETH	You should know how it works.  Just in case.
NORMAN	In case you die, too?
BETH	I don't trust Harry to do it.
NORMAN	I would.  But my suit --
BETH	I fixed your suit.

NORMAN	You fixed my suit?
BETH	You don't trust me?
NORMAN	But I don't know how --
BETH	You press a button, Norman.  It's not brain surgery.  Here, go ahead.  You only have 15 minutes to reset it.  Go on, Norman...

BETH	The sub's a 100 feet in front of you.  You see it?
NORMAN	I can't see anything.  How does it look?  Still clear?
BETH	Still clear.

BETH	What's the matter?
NORMAN	You fixed this suit?  Beth?
BETH	Yes, Norman.  I did.  You're just nervous.
NORMAN	My air isn't... I'm coming back.
BETH	You can't.  Counter's at 10 minutes. You don't have time.

NORMAN	Still clear?
BETH	Still clear.

BETH	... what do you mean?  I'm in the ship.
NORMAN	What are you doing in the ship?  Beth?
BETH	Getting food.  We were out of food. what's wrong?  You sound mad.
NORMAN	Yeah, well, I get that way when I'm facing death and someone deserts me.
BETH	Deserts you?  Harry said he'd take over for me.
NORMAN	He what?

BETH	You get it straightened out?
NORMAN	I think so, Beth.  Yes.

BETH	What's Harry doing with your suit in there?
NORMAN	Fixing it.
BETH	Fixing it?  But I fixed --  Where'd you get all that?
NORMAN	The refridgerator.
BETH	The refridgerator.
NORMAN	It's a pretty common place to look for food when you don't think you have any.
BETH	That wasn't in there before.
NORMAN	We must've had it delivered then.
BETH	Wait a second --
NORMAN	1-800-Deepsea delivery.  I hear they're good.
BETH	None of this was here before.
NORMAN	Did you look?  It was on the top shelf.
BETH	No, it wasn't.  I swear none of this was here.  None of it.  You think he hid it?  Earlier.  He must've hid it.
NORMAN	You think?
BETH	You don't believe me.
NORMAN	All I know is I opened that refridgerator --
BETH	Damn it, Norman.  I swear.  I had a whole conversation with the man when he woke up.
NORMAN	This being after you so carefully fixed my suit.
BETH	You think it's me?  You think I'm saying there was a conversation when there wasn't?
NORMAN	I don't know, Beth.  I wasn't there.
BETH	Damn it, Norman!  He's lying.  Don't you get it?  There is something seriously fucked up going on here -- and he's causing it.  Why can't you believe me?

NORMAN	Page 87.
BETH	What?

NORMAN	Our fisherman frequently see some that are more than four feet long. Some skeletons of squids...
L527714	u7811	m528	NORMAN	Page 87.  I could never read that far."
BETH	Squids?
NORMAN	... according to calculations of some naturalists, one of these animals, only six feet long, would have tentacles 27 feet long.  That would make a formidable monster.

NORMAN	After the attack, a Navy guy woke me up -- I don't know -- I thought he was an illusion.  But I checked the tape, and Jerry said he manifested him.
BETH	Manifested?
NORMAN	Created.  Brought to life.  I don't know.  But at the end, Jerry said, "Stop calling me Jerry".  And --

NORMAN	He translated it wrong.
BETH	What?

NORMAN	Remember when we first spoke to Jerry, Barnes kept asking for Jerry's real name?  But Harry never would?  He didn't because he was afraid the screen would say "Harry", instead of Jerry.  We weren't talking to an alien intelligence when we talked to Jerry, we were talking to Harry... or a part of Harry.
BETH	What do you mean, a part of Harry?
NORMAN	When did the messages start?  The animals outside start showing up? After Harry came out of the sphere.
BETH	You think, in the sphere --
NORMAN	He acquired some sort of power.  A power to manifest things.
BETH	But how?
NORMAN	I don't know.
BETH	How can the sphere do that?
NORMAN	I don't know, Beth.  I'm not the fucking alien that built the thing. But it can.  When Harry came out of the sphere, he mumbled something about page 87.  How he would never read that far -- he was too scared to.  Then you found the book, remember in your lab.  Then in the cafeteria -- and page 87 talks about a giant squid...
BETH	Which I told Barnes was attacking --
NORMAN	It's his fear.  The squid.  He's manifesting his fears.  Making them real.
BETH	But why is he doing it?
NORMAN	He must not realize he is.  Like the Navy crewman -- Harry was sleeping then.  He must've manifested his dream.
BETH	His dream?  You can't control your dreams.  And you can't control your fears, can you?
NORMAN	No.  I mean, we've always believed we can think anything we want without consequences.  You ever read the Bible?  It talks about our sinful nature, you know?  I mean, we can think, and believe, and desire whatever we want, but there's a part of us -- a shadow side, as Jung called it -- that can't be controlled.  It's evil. It's inside us.  It's what we are.

BETH	And that's the part of Harry that's being manifested.
NORMAN	Must be.  And if it is -- it's a part of him not even he can control.

NORMAN	Looks like some sort of code.
BETH	Why would Harry go back to using a code?

NORMAN	Diphenyl parlene.
BETH	Something for burns.
NORMAN	Ephedrine hydrochloride.

BETH	It's for motion sickness.
NORMAN	Valdomet.
BETH	Ulcers.
NORMAN	Sintag.
BETH	A synthetic opium analogue.
NORMAN	Does it cause drowsiness?  That's all we need.  To get him unconscious -- put him under.
BETH	Nothing about drowsiness.
NORMAN	Tarazine?
BETH	Tranquilizer.  Causes drowsiness.
NORMAN	Bingo.
BETH	... and may also cause bizarre halucinations.

NORMAN	Riordan?
BETH	Antihistamine.  For bites.
NORMAN	Damn it!  Chloramphenicol?
BETH	Antibiotic.
NORMAN	Parasolutrine?
BETH	How do you spell it?
NORMAN	P-a-r-a-s-o...
BETH	It's a soporific.
NORMAN	What's that?
BETH	Causes sleep.
NORMAN	It's like a sleeping pill?
BETH	... used as an anesthetic if given in combination with paracin trichloride... 

NORMAN	20 cc's of parasolutrine in combination with 6 cc's of paracin given IV produces deep sleep suitable for emergency surgical procedures... no cardiac side effects ... REM activity is surpressed... 
BETH	How long does it last?
NORMAN	Three to six hours.
BETH	I'll just boost the doses.
NORMAN	What?  Wait -- isn't that dangerous?
BETH	How fast does it take effect?
NORMAN	Doesn't say.
BETH	What if it takes 20 minutes, Norman? What if it takes an hour?  And he can fight it off?  We can't afford that.

BETH	It's an idea.
NORMAN	Beth --
BETH	To be on the safe side.  I mean --
NORMAN	You want to kill him?
BETH	Look, it's either him or us, Norman. Another attack, and we go down with this place.

BETH	You ever given an injection before.
NORMAN	Thirty years ago.  In residency.  I passed out.  You?
BETH	Only lab rats.  Here.

NORMAN	I'm sorry.
BETH	For what?
NORMAN	Not believing you.
BETH	You're not sorry.  You're scared.  You're a psychologist, Norman.  You pride yourself on knowing when someone's lying to you, not telling you the truth.  And now you're scared ... because you're not sure you can tell anymore.

BETH	What is it, Norman?
NORMAN	Where are you?
BETH	In the sub.  Resetting the timer. Why?

NORMAN	The sphere looks different.
BETH	What do you mean, different?
NORMAN	The grooves around the door -- they've shifted.  And the pattern -- the fluids -- they look darker now.
BETH	How's Harry?

BETH	What was that?  I couldn't hear you.
NORMAN	Your watch.
BETH	Oh yes, my watch.  I almost forgot.

BETH	What's wrong, Norman?
NORMAN	I'm feeling better.
BETH	Are you?

BETH	It's getting cold.
NORMAN	You think I'd really drink that?
BETH	You don't think I put something in it, do you?
NORMAN	You put explosives around the habitat, I can't imagine what you'd put in a drink.
BETH	I did do that, didn't I?

NORMAN	How do you feel about snakes?
BETH	Snakes?  What do you mean, exactly?
NORMAN	You know what I mean.
BETH	Am I afraid of them?  Not during the day.  Sea snakes are diurnal.  When the sun's out, they don't bite. Fortunately for you, I had on my watch.  This is quite good.
NORMAN	What are they doing down here?  In the bathroom?  Suddenly appearing.
BETH	You tell me.
NORMAN	Do you fear them?
BETH	Don't you?
NORMAN	Are you manifesting them?
BETH	If I was, then I would've had to have gone in the sphere, wouldn't I?
NORMAN	Did you?
BETH	What's the phrase -- "keeping up with the Joneses"?
NORMAN	Why did you go in the sphere, Beth?
BETH	Same reason I put explosives around the habitat.  For defense.  For the power.  To protect myself.
NORMAN	Against what?  Harry's unconscious. He's not a threat.
BETH	No, he isn't.
NORMAN	He can't manifest.
BETH	No, he can't.
NORMAN	Then why, Beth?  Why go in?  Why put out explosives?  Why manifest the snakes?
BETH	You think I manifested the snakes?
NORMAN	Someone did.
BETH	Yes, someone did.  But it wasn't me, Norman.  It was you.  You manifested the snakes.

NORMAN	Beth you're losing it.  C'mon.
BETH	C'mon -- what?
NORMAN	You're lying --
BETH	Am I lying?  Are you sure?  Are you absolutely sure I'm lying?  Then explain to me about the jellyfish.  Earlier.  Why did we see jellyfish?  Harry doesn't fear jellyfish.  You do.  They're your fear, aren't they?
NORMAN	But --
BETH	And the snakes?  You want to know about the snakes?  You saw one outside earlier, didn't you?  When you thought I had deserted you -- you were terrified.
NORMAN	That's when you went in the sphere.
BETH	One lonely, terrifying sea snake.
NORMAN	You manifested that, Beth.
BETH	Did I?  Or was that you?  When you were hiding in the bathroom -- all conspiratorially like you were -- you became frightened, didn't you?  Terrified.  Like you were with the snake earlier -- and suddenly you have snakes slithering all over the floor.  You did that, Norman.
NORMAN	You're insane.
BETH	Am I?  Or am I making so much sense that you're going insane?
NORMAN	I never went in that sphere.
BETH	You don't remember you did.  But I'm sure you remember running like some fucking hero to get Harry, don't you?  You remember that.
NORMAN	Yes.
BETH	You remember before you picked him up -- when you looked up at the sphere, you remember that -- when the sphere opened?  That's right.  But you can't remember going inside, can you?  No, of course not.  Harry couldn't either, could he?  "Like everything's on the tip of my tongue", he said.
NORMAN	That's bullshit.
BETH	Is it?
NORMAN	Beth, the message said Harry.  "My name is Harry".  My name isn't Harry.
BETH	No, it isn't.  Your name is Norman. But your younger brother -- what was his name?  The one who was stung when you were younger.  The one that died. The one you couldn't save.  What was his name?  "Mommy, we're going out to the ocean -- to go swimming." "But I don't want to go swimming, Norman.  I'm scared." "C'mon, <u>Harry</u>, it'll be fine, it'll be fun."  You heartless fuck.  That's why you're so scared of the water, isn't it?
NORMAN	Shut up, Beth --
BETH	When you were in that sub -- and that squid was attacking you -- are you sure it was the squid that was attacking?  Do you know?  "I can't get Beth on the radio.  I'm in this tiny sub on the bottom of the fucking ocean.  All alone.  Surrounded by all this water." Was it really the squid that was attacking you, Norman -- or was it something else -- one of your fears?  You never really saw what it was, did you?

BETH	I'm not scaring you, am I Norman?  I hope I'm not frightening you.  The last thing I want to do is frighten you.  You feel okay, don't you?
NORMAN	It's not me, Beth.  I swear.  It can't be.
BETH	It's not me, Beth.  It's not me.  It can't be.  I'm not doing anything. Just like Harry said before I stabbed him with the needle.

NORMAN	Don't, Beth.
BETH	But I have to, Norman.
NORMAN	I promise --
BETH	Promise what, Norman?  Tell me!
NORMAN	Beth --
BETH	You think I'd belive you?  Believe anything you might say now?  After you lied to me about telling Barnes about my past.  About my problems.  My problems.  Not yours.  Not his.  Mine.
NORMAN	Don't, Beth.  Please.
BETH	It's either this... or I kill you.

BETH	It's your choice.  Because it's not safe for you to be awake.  To be walking around.  To be thinking about things.
NORMAN	It's not safe for you to be either.
BETH	You think I care?  You think I care if I die?  Would I put explosives around the habitat -- set on vibration sensors -- that can trigger automatically, if I cared about myself?  Would I? I've tried twice before, Norman, why wouldn't I try a third time?  I'm not thinking about myself -- No, Norman, I'm thinking about you.  Your safety. Protecting you from your own self.

BETH	This is what I'm talking about, Norman.  Don't you see?  It's in you. This vindictiveness.  This rage.
NORMAN	Get away from the door, Beth.

BETH	Of course you're going to deny it. You want to blame someone else.  You want to blame Beth.  Because you hate Beth.
NORMAN	Don't fuck with me, Beth.
BETH	I'm not fucking with you, Norman. You've fucked yourself.

NORMAN	Beth!
BETH	You're frightened, aren't you, Norman?

NORMAN	Where is it coming from, Beth?
BETH	Don't you know?

NORMAN	Beth, stop it!
BETH	Stop what?  Don't blame me.  It's not me.

NORMAN	Then where's it coming from?
BETH	From you, Norman.  From your mind. You're doing it.

NORMAN	Stop it!
BETH	It's you, Norman.  Your fear of drowning.  You have to face it.

NORMAN	Beth?
BETH	Leave me alone, Norman.

BETH	You can't stop it, Norman.  You can't fight me.
NORMAN	I know.  You're too strong, Beth.
BETH	Oh please, don't shrink me, Norman. Not now.
NORMAN	I --
BETH	Don't tell me about me.  I already know too much.
NORMAN	Beth -- gimme the gun.
BETH	Oh, sure.  Here.  Anything else, Beth can get you?  Some more chicken, perhaps.  Let Beth check the fridge.
NORMAN	C'mon --
BETH	Top shelf, is it?
NORMAN	Let's get out of here, Beth.  Let's go home.

BETH	What is that?  What are you doing?
NORMAN	What?
BETH	You hear that?
NORMAN	Hear what?
BETH	Get away from me!
NORMAN	Beth --
BETH	Get away --

BETH	Would it work?
NORMAN	Yes.  And I think we already know it will.
BETH	How's that?
NORMAN	Down below, Harry said we would all have to die.  Since there was no evidence on that spacecraft that anybody knew time travel through a black hole was possible -- and we all knew -- then we would all have to die before we could tell anyone. Death was the only logical explanation.  But sitting here, we still know.  So how is that possible?  Unless we make ourselves forget.

TED	Pussy.
BETH	What's that -- mistake number two, Norman?

TED	No.  I don't think so.
BETH	Well, think.  Because there's footprints here that aren't mine.
TED	Well, they're not mine.

BETH	I don't get it.
TED	It doesn't make any sense.

TED	Well, what's your theory?
BETH	I'm a woman.  I don't theorize.  I only deal with facts.

BETH	Norman?  Where's Norman?
TED	By the bunks.

TED	He doesn't wait for an answer.
BETH	Who says it's a he?

HARRY	Pry the thing open?  What are we -- neanderthals?
BETH	All that banging and pounding.  I don't know.  We should think about making a good first impression.
HARRY	For who?  The fish?
BETH	For whoever's in that thing.

BETH	It's empty.  Why would someone build a ship like this?
HARRY	You'd have to ask them.

BETH	Then what is it?
HARRY	It's an American spacecraft.

BETH	What are you looking for?
HARRY	A light switch.  A button opened that door -- the craft runs on some sort of power.

BETH	Take politics, our views on abortion, the death penalty...
HARRY	Cannibalism, to be extreme.  And now we're talking about a new life form. Their values and ethics may be incomprehensible.

BETH	When he woke up, he said we were out of food.  He told me to get some from the ship.
HARRY	I never said that.
BETH	Yes you did.  Norman, I wouldn't leave you out there.  You know that.
HARRY	We never even had a conversation, Norman.
BETH	Harry?  That's bullshit.  We stood right there --

BETH	Jerry.  Right.  I said Jerry, didn't I?
HARRY	That's a hell of a mistake to make, Beth.
BETH	I'm sorry.  Slip of the tongue.
HARRY	Yeah, I don't know how you could make that confusion.

BETH	Just in time, too.
HARRY	In time for what?
BETH	What?
HARRY	Just in time for what?

BETH	Our habitat, I mean.  This place can't handle another attack.
HARRY	Another attack?

HARRY	Why are you looking at me like that?
BETH	Like what?  I'm not --
HARRY	You're staring at me.
BETH	No I'm not.  I'm not star--
HARRY	Yes you are...

HARRY	They're going to want answers and they're going to keep asking until they get them.
BETH	We can refuse to talk.
HARRY	Won't make any difference.  The tapes document everything.

NORMAN	When did it come across?
EDMUNDS	Minutes ago.  Harry's trying to decode it in his room now.
NORMAN	Where's it coming from?
EDMUNDS	No idea.  We have no surface support. It transmitted too fast to be coming from underwater.
NORMAN	Is it coming from our own computer?
EDMUNDS	Harry thinks it's some sort of discharge from our own system, but I've seen it discharge before -- and it didn't look anything like this.

HARRY	How are you feeling, Norman?
NORMAN	What?
HARRY	You holding up alright?
NORMAN	Fine.  I'm fine.
HARRY	Don't be defensive.
NORMAN	I'm not being defensive.
HARRY	You sound defensive.
NORMAN	I'm fine.

HARRY	Go ahead.  Ladies first.
NORMAN	No, why don't --

HARRY	C'mon.
NORMAN	Wait a second, I --

HARRY	C'mon, Norman.
NORMAN	Look, would you --

HARRY	Nice work, Norman.
NORMAN	Whatever I can do to help.

HARRY	Our answer.
NORMAN	To what?
HARRY	Time travel.  A black hole.

HARRY	This answers one of our questions.
NORMAN	Which one?  Let me get the list out.
HARRY	This spacecraft was designed to pick things up.  They see things they want -- these claws go out and bring it in.  They come across this.  This... <u>sphere</u>.  Find it interesting, curious.  They draw it inside to take back home.
NORMAN	But on the way home, they miss their turn, go too far, into the past.
HARRY	Our present.

NORMAN	I mentioned it in my report.  Didn't you read the report?
HARRY	Everything ever written about extra- terrestial life imagines that life is essentially human.  If it doesn't look human, it's a reptile or a big insect or something, having human values, human understanding.

HARRY	And we're just talking about three- dimensional creatures.  What if it's five or six or seven-dimensional?  So dimensional that we couldn't even see it to kill it.
NORMAN	Good point.  I don't know what you're talking about, but good point.

NORMAN	Don't be so optomistic, Harry.
HARRY	I'm completely serious.  There is something very important missing from that spacecraft.  You know what that is?
NORMAN	Not a clue.
HARRY	A sign that the builders knew time travel through a black hole was possible.
NORMAN	I don't follow you.
HARRY	On that flight recorder, they called the black hole an "Unknown Entry Event." They didn't know what a black hole was.  Fifty years from now, men are going to build that ship in a very tentative, experimental way, with no knowledge that time travel through a black hole is possible.
NORMAN	So what?

HARRY	So, <u>we know</u>.  We know it went through a black hole.  We saw it.  Norman -- when we'd get to the surface, we'd tell someone about the black hole, wouldn't we?  It'd go in some report like some big discovery.  So in fifty years when they build that ship, they'd make precautions for a black hole.  <u>But they didn't</u>.  The called it an Unknown Entry Event.
NORMAN	Meaning we're never gonna get the chance to tell anyone.
HARRY	Meaning we're never gonna get to the surface alive... to tell anyone.

NORMAN	I can't believe that, Harry.
HARRY	Gimme another explanation.

NORMAN	I can't.  If I had a minute to think, maybe, but I know you're wrong.
HARRY	Am I?
NORMAN	Look -- we're under a lot of pressure, we're tired, you're not thinking straight.
HARRY	You mean, you think I'm cracking?
NORMAN	No.  I didn't say that.
HARRY	Then what, Norman?

NORMAN	It's what's in that sphere, isn't it, Harry?  Whatever you think is in that thing -- you think it's going to kill you.
HARRY	Curious, isn't it?  What's inside? Before I die, I'd sure like to open it and see.

HARRY	What is that?  That noise?
NORMAN	What noise?
HARRY	It's like...

NORMAN	Harry, can you tell me about the sphere?
HARRY	What are you still doing here?
NORMAN	You remember opening the door?
HARRY	You were all supposed to leave.  You weren't supposed to stay down here.
NORMAN	Tell me about the door.  Do you remember how you opened the door to the sphere?... Harry?
HARRY	You don't understand about the sphere.
NORMAN	Then explain it to me.

HARRY	Norman?
NORMAN	What is it, Harry?
HARRY	What happens on page 87?  Have you ever read page 87?
NORMAN	Page 87 of what, Harry?
HARRY	I could never read that far.  I never wanted to.
NORMAN	That far in what, Harry?

NORMAN	These aren't half bad, Fletcher.  You might have a second career coming.
HARRY	What are they?

NORMAN	Getting anywhere with those?
HARRY	There's some sort of pattern here. It'll take a minute.
NORMAN	Have you looked outside?  Jellyfish. Everywhere.  I hate jellyfish.  Harry, what happened in the cafeteria?
HARRY	Don't do this.  Don't psychoanalyze me.  I hate squid.  Period.  Just like you hate jellyfish.
NORMAN	You said something to me, before -- about how we were all going to die.
HARRY	Did I?
NORMAN	You don't remember that?
HARRY	I don't remember much.  It's like my memory is on the tip of my tongue -- but I can't taste any of it.  Funny, my senses are much keener though. Purer.  Hearing, seeing, smelling. Like, I can smell your sheets, Norman.  You tried to wash it out earlier, But I can still smell the urine.  Don't worry, I'm not going to tell the others.  It's normal, really, isn't it?  In a crisis.  The stress. The panic.

HARRY	... you there?  Norman?
NORMAN	Harry?
HARRY	Norman, where are you?
NORMAN	I can't breathe...  Am I... clear?
HARRY	You're clear.  You see the airlock?

NORMAN	Thank you.  My suit -- Beth said she fixed it --
HARRY	What happened to her?
NORMAN	What do you mean?  She's not here?
HARRY	When I woke up, nobody was here.
NORMAN	She was supposed to be watching the sensor for me.
HARRY	Her suit's gone.
NORMAN	Beth left?
HARRY	I thought she was with you.

HARRY	She's cracking, Norman.
NORMAN	You didn't say that about the food?
HARRY	I was just in the cafeteria, there's plenty of food in there.  Take a look for yourself.
NORMAN	But why would she -- ?
HARRY	She's lying, Norman.  Just like she lied about fixing your suit.

HARRY	Wisconsin's your answer.
NORMAN	Wisconsin?
HARRY	Navy transmission.  They're sent from Wisconsin.
NORMAN	How do we decode it?
HARRY	Don't have to.  Watch.  It'll do it for you.

NORMAN	We just figured, you know, the three of us -- we need to... work together through this.
HARRY	The three of us.
NORMAN	That's right.
HARRY	Is that why the two of you went through my dufflebag?

HARRY	What is it?
NORMAN	You know what it is, Harry.

NORMAN	It's the squid!  Stop it!
HARRY	Stop what?  What are you -- ?

HARRY	Did I kill her?
NORMAN	I don't think so.
HARRY	I could hit her a little harder. More toward the cranium.

HARRY	Fine.
NORMAN	Help me lift her.

HARRY	We're never gonna make it.
NORMAN	Shut up and open the door.

HARRY	How much time you figure to get to the surface?
NORMAN	Two and a half minutes.  Once we're in the sub.
HARRY	How far away's the sub?

HARRY	I can't reach her.
NORMAN	Hold on.

HARRY	Push her, c'mon.
NORMAN	I'm trying.  Shit.  Here -- catch her.

HARRY	Missed.
NORMAN	Are you trying, damn it?  Just --

NORMAN	Hold on.
HARRY	Hurry, Norman.  Four minutes.
NORMAN	I heard!  I heard!

HARRY	Three fifty-six, three fifty-five, three --
NORMAN	Shut up and catch.

HARRY	C'mon, Norman!
NORMAN	I'm trying to keep balance with --
HARRY	Gimme a second --
NORMAN	Just pull her -- down like inside -- Harry, work with me here!
HARRY	Her legs are in the way.
NORMAN	You got her?

NORMAN	Get her out of the seat, I need room to sit.  Harry?
HARRY	I'm trying.  There.

HARRY	You know how to work this thing?
NORMAN	No idea.
HARRY	Well, press something!
NORMAN	Wait!

HARRY	Less than a minute, we're never gonna make it.
NORMAN	Nine hundred feet to surface.
HARRY	It's not fast enough, Norman. There's a helluva lot of explosive down there.

HARRY	How's that working out, by the way?
NORMAN	Good.  Thank you.  Now that I have it on.  Why are you laughing?  You don't even know what that means.
HARRY	No.  I don't.  But I always said to myself, when I die, I want to die laughing.

NORMAN	There is one possibility.
HARRY	We all kill ourselves?  Bad joke.  Sorry, Beth.

NORMAN	The power allows us to manifest our fears, right?  What if we feared the power to go away?
HARRY	You mean forget?
NORMAN	It would erase all our knowledge of it.  All of our power.

TED	What'd you say to him?
HARRY	To who?  Arthur?  Nothing.  Nothing that Norman doesn't already know.
TED	What does Norman already know?
HARRY	Norman thinks we shouldn't be going down.  Thinks it's a mistake.

HARRY	She told me what you said, Norman.
TED	What is it, Harry?
HARRY	Just one of Norman's many secrets.

TED	It's just like swimming, Norman... You know how to swim, don't you?
HARRY	You're not afraid of the water, are you, Norman?

HARRY	Easy Ted, we're not mining gold.
TED	Gimme some room here, will you?  Back off.  Gimme some space.

TED	Alot like.  You know, I noticed it before, but I didn't...
HARRY	Shutup, Ted.  You didn't notice shit. Keep hammering.

TED	English?
HARRY	That's right.

HARRY	You don't think it does?  I think it's rather obvious.
TED	Is it some sort of joke?  Like one of those hoaxes?
HARRY	A spacecraft half a mile long -- with 500 tonnes of coral on top of it?  Someone went to a lot of trouble.  Try again.
TED	But it's impossible.
HARRY	Is it?

TED	Why would this ship carry instructions in English?
HARRY	Think about it.
TED	Unless, this alien spacecraft was -- you know -- somehow presenting itself to Americans in a way that would make us feel comfortable.

HARRY	All the facts you need are right in front of you.
TED	Gimme a minute here... I think I've got it.
HARRY	Do you?
TED	If it is an alien spacecraft --
HARRY	Save your breath.  It's not an alien spacecraft.

TED	An American spacecraft?  Half a mile long?  And buried 400 years?  Yeah, good theory, Harry.
HARRY	It's been obvious from the start, hasn't it, Captain?  That's why all the secrecy, why no one was told about it?

HARRY	We take a weeny little wedge, bang on it a couple of times, and bust off a chunk of the metal.  Yet any spacecraft -- even at a low velocity, say 200 miles an hour -- crashes into the water -- it's gonna be like hitting concrete, it would crumple like paper.  But there isn't a dent to be seen anywhere.  Not even a scratch.
TED	Meaning?
HARRY	Meaning it didn't land in the water.
TED	Please.  It must have flown here --
HARRY	It didn't fly here.  It <u>arrived</u> here.
TED	Arrived?  From where?
HARRY	Not where.  When.  400 years ago.  From our future.

TED	Looks like a design, some writing, maybe.  Maybe it was sent to meet the spacecraft with a message.
HARRY	Look closely.  That isn't writing. Those are grooves.

TED	Hey, go easy on the salt, will ya? We're not a bunch of icy streets here.
HARRY	Salt's good for you, Ted.  Helps you from getting impotent.
TED	Impotent?  I'm not impotent.

HARRY	Well, if it's a discharge --
TED	It's not a discharge.  Right, Edmunds?  You said before, right?  So it's gotta be a message.

HARRY	If it is a message, it's probably a substitution code.  I'll work on it.
TED	Yeah, I'll work on it, too.

HARRY	... I asked myself, why would the sphere be using a code?  If you're trying to communicate, why use a code?
TED	See?  No code.  What'd I say?
HARRY	Codes are for <u>hiding</u> information.  So it's making a mistake.  It's making a code without intending to.  I figured it's probably substituting numbers for letters...  Then I began to wonder what an alien intelligence would make of our keyboard.  And since we're getting spirals, I imagined the keyboard as a spiral.  So I translated it...

TED	What'd you say?
HARRY	We are friends.

HARRY	Good idea, Ted.
TED	Thank you.

TED	Don't gimme that psychology bullshit, Norman.  Psychology isn't a science, it's superstition.  It's a bunch of soft, subjective theories without any hard data to back it up. With an intellect like this, emotions don't mean shit.
HARRY	It's like showing Leonardo da Vinci a laptop computer.  He'd run screaming "witchcraft".  And you couldn't explain it to him, either. Modems, microchips, particle physics.

NAVY SEAMAN	Norman Johnson.
NORMAN	Does this mean what I think it means?
NAVY SEAMAN	It's over, sir, The storm has cleared.
NORMAN	The ships?
NAVY SEAMAN	They're topside.  We're ready to take you home, sir.

NORMAN	How are the others?
NAVY SEAMAN	The others, sir?
NORMAN	Beth and Harry?
NAVY SEAMAN	They're in the sub, sir.  Waiting.

NORMAN	That whole time -- I couldn't stop thinking of what Harry was saying earlier...
NAVY SEAMAN	What was that, sir?
NORMAN	About the time paradox.  How we were all going to die -- that there was no way we would make it out of here alive --

OFFICER	Any other bags, Dr. Johnson?
NORMAN	Just that.  Careful, it's heavy.

OFFICER	No other equipment?  Scientific instruments?
NORMAN	No, they didn't say --
OFFICER	This way, sir.

OFFICER	Captain Barnes wants to see you right away, sir.
NORMAN	Captain who?
OFFICER	Barnes.  He's very eager to meet you. Been calling us every half hour to see if you're arrived.
NORMAN	Really?

OFFICER	By the way sir, I've read your report.  I think it's brilliant.
NORMAN	What report?
OFFICER	You mean they haven't told you yet?
NORMAN	Told me what?

NORMAN	I'm in psychology.  Was.  Still am really, just been a while.  I treat aircrash survivors.
PILOT	Oh, so you're that Dr. Johnson.
NORMAN	You've heard of me?
PILOT	Well, everybody's been talking about that report you wrote.
NORMAN	What report?
PILOT	Huh?
NORMAN	What report?
PILOT	You mean you don't know?
NORMAN	Know what?

PILOT	Must be another Johnson then.  Been flying so many scientists out here -- can't keep everyone straight.
NORMAN	Who's everyone?
PILOT	Physicists, mathematicians, geologists, you name it.
NORMAN	Geologists?  At a plane crash?
PILOT	Strange, isn't it?  In the middle of the ocean no less.
NORMAN	What the hell would a geologist be doing at a plane crash?

NORMAN	He wasn't feeling well.
TED	He's a pussy.

NORMAN	You want me to try?
TED	You're a 53 year old shrink, what are you gonna do?

TED	Strange, isn't it?  You know -- how it would have a button.
NORMAN	Earth doesn't have a patent on buttons, Ted.
TED	Still, make a note I recognized that.

TED	He's manic, Norman.  You know that? This reliance on Harry is misplaced. You hear me?  Totally misplaced.  He's overlooking things.  Obvious things.
NORMAN	Like what?

TED	It's not some fucking substitution code, it's a direct visual representation.
NORMAN	You mean a picture?
TED	Take a look.  I rearranged the numbers.  Put 'em up to the light.  Go ahead.  Squint at it.
NORMAN	I don't see anything.
TED	Squint harder.
NORMAN	Please, Ted.
TED	Try this one.
NORMAN	This is like nursery school.
TED	Don't you see it?  It's a picture of the creature.
NORMAN	The creature?
TED	Inside the sphere.  Look, that's the vertical torso, three legs, two arms.  There's no head, so I'm guessing the creature's head is located within the torso itself, you know?

NORMAN	Well, how about we wait and see what Harry comes up with?
TED	Sure, why not.  Give him the trophy. That pretentious son of a bitch.  You heard him, Norman.  All that "someone went to a lot of trouble, try again" bullshit.  And "impotent".  Where does he get off saying I'm impotent?  He's a fucking self-righteous, little prick.

NORMAN	Well, he's polite.
TED	Unless it's an act.

TED	You want to put him on your couch, Norman.  Grill him about his childhood?
NORMAN	When he uses a phrase like "I am Happy", I think we should think twice about what we ask him.

NORMAN	Frankly, Ted, I'd be much happier if Jerry was just a cold, emotionless intellect.
TED	Why's that?

NORMAN	What was it?
TED	Barnes didn't know.  Couldn't get a reading.
NORMAN	Has Harry spoken with Jerry?
TED	Not that I know of.  Why?

TED	You think Jerry has something to do with what killed Edmunds?  With what's out there?
NORMAN	I'm not sure.

TED	Jerry isn't hostile, Norman.  He said earlier -- we were his friends --
NORMAN	Of course he did.  He's been isloated for 400 years.  He wants someone to talk to.  Look, you put a human being in isolation for four days, they can become neurotic, sometimes psychotic.  We're talking about 400 years here.  An alien that shows emotional responses.  I think we need to address him, before he reacts further.

WIFE	What kind of a crash was it?
NORMAN	You seen my suitcase?
WIFE	There's nothing on the news about a crash.  Did he say what airline?
NORMAN	He didn't say much at all.  Honey --
WIFE	In the closet.  I don't understand, Norman -- why would they call you?
NORMAN	Don't be so supportive, honey.
WIFE	Well, I can't imagine five years of unemployment --
NORMAN	Four.  Four years --
WIFE	Four years of unemployment would look too good on a resume.
NORMAN	Keep watching the news.  Are you watching the news?
WIFE	How are you getting to the airport? You need money for the bus?

WIFE	There's a U.S.  Navy car outside, Norman.
NORMAN	What?
WIFE	Was it a military crash?
NORMAN	I don't know.
WIFE	They never used to send a Navy car.

BLIND MAN	Hey!  You there!
JOHN	You want something, old man?
BLIND MAN	Don't call me old man.  Ain't you got no respect, boy?
JOHN	You want something?
BLIND MAN	Yeah I want something.  I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
JOHN	You can't do that yourself?
BLIND MAN	Hell no, I can't do that myself. I'm blind.  Can't you see that?
JOHN	I'm sorry, I didn't--
BLIND MAN	What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on?  Sunnin' myself?
JOHN	I don't know.  I thought you were keeping the sun from your eyes.
BLIND MAN	I ain't got no eyes.  You want to see?
JOHN	Christ no!
BLIND MAN	Lost my eyes on Okinawa.  Lost them fighting the war.  Fought the war and lost my eyes just so you could come around here and make fun of me.
JOHN	I said I was sorry.
BLIND MAN	Don't be sorry.  Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
JOHN	Yeah, sure.  You got change?
BLIND MAN	Change?  You want my change?  I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
JOHN	All right, old man.  Christ.

BLIND MAN	Get me a Dr. Peppa!  I don't want no Pepsi.  Pepsi ain't nothing but flavored water.
JOHN	Yeah, yeah.

BLIND MAN	Don't forget to open it for me.  I can't be opening my own bottle.
JOHN	Christ!

JOHN	I think you'd better give your pooch a sip.  He looks sick.
BLIND MAN	That's 'cause he's dead.

JOHN	Oh, Jesus.
BLIND MAN	I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was you?
JOHN	What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
BLIND MAN	He's only just dead.  What was I supposed to do with him?  I can't take him away anywhere.  And nobody wants to take him for me.  Do you?
JOHN	He no!
BLIND MAN	See.  Ain't nothing I can do but keep him here beside me.  That's where he belongs anyways.  Me and Jesse, that's my dog, not anymore, but me and Jesse we been pals since the war when I lost my eyes.  He was just a pup then . . .

JOHN	You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
BLIND MAN	Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
JOHN	That a fact?
BLIND MAN	I can see just fine.  For example: You're a young man who thinks he's got someplace to be.
JOHN	Maybe I do.
BLIND MAN	Or maybe you just think you do.  You can run just as far as you can, but wherever you go, there you are.
JOHN	I think I've heard that before.
BLIND MAN	What do you want for free?
JOHN	You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
BLIND MAN	That's 'cause I've done a lot of living.
JOHN	Maybe one day I'll get to sit on a corner and spout wise.
BLIND MAN	Think you'll live that long?

BLIND MAN	Ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
JOHN	I'm a little short. I'll catch you next time.
BLIND MAN	I won't hold my breath.

JOHN	The day wasn't so bad.  We all got through it all right.
BLIND MAN	Ain't over yet.  Night is part of day; separate, but equal.  Night is when you let your guard down; when you see things in the shadows and hear things in the dark.
JOHN	You're a hell of a pessimist, old man.
BLIND MAN	Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'.  It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
JOHN	You afraid of the dark?
BLIND MAN	Afraid of it?  Boy, I live in the dark.  People are afraid of what they can't see.  I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me. Kiss from a beautiful woman, a lick from a dog.  The kiss of death. It's all the same.
JOHN	You don't fear death?
BLIND MAN	We was born to die, boy.  From the minute you take your first breath you got a death sentence hanging over your head.  You just don't know where, or when, or how.  Don't make sense worryin' about the particulars.
JOHN	We're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride.  Is that it?
BLIND MAN	More or less.
JOHN	Not this twig, friend.  I got plans.
BLIND MAN	We all got plans.  I planned on seeing all my life.  I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
JOHN	No and I don't plan on sticking around either.  I don't guess I'll be seeing you again.  Take it easy.
BLIND MAN	Same back at you.

JOHN	Any parting words of wisdom?
BLIND MAN	Things ain't always the way they seem. You got to ask yourself; is it worth it?

JOHN	I'll take a piece of that bet. I say it doesn't come up five times each side.
BOYD	Well, a man with some gumption.  How much money you got?
JOHN	Nothing.
BOYD	You want to make a kiddies bet?
JOHN	I'll bet my watch against your pay.

JOHN	It's a Movado.
BOYD	Never heard of it.  It's got no day or date.  Hell, it ain't even got numbers.  What's the matter?  You couldn't afford a Timex?
JOHN	Next city you're in take it to a jeweler.  He won't give you less than four-hundred for it.

JOHN	Thirty-bucks?  That's it?
BOYD	That's my morning's pay.
JOHN	I'm a rich man off of thirty bucks?

ED	One-hundred-thirteen degrees.  That was back in July of forty-seven. Now there ain't no way it's gonna be hotter than that.
BOYD	Hundred and eight already.

ED	Hundred and eight ain't a hundred and thirteen.
BOYD	Will be.
ED	You ain't nothing but an old fool.
BOYD	You got two years on me.  What's that make me?

ED	It's nonsense.
BOYD	It is not.
ED	A coin's got two sides.  When you flip it there's a fifty-fifty chance it'll be heads or tails.  Boyd thinks if you flip a coin ten times half the time it'll come up each side.
BOYD	It will.
ED	No it won't.  You just don't know shit about statistics.

BOYD	And what are you?  A rocket scientist?
ED	I got more brains than you've got teeth.
BOYD	Put your money where your chicken- lipped mouth is.  I'll bet this mornings pay I'm right.

CLERK	Can I help you, sir?
JOHN	I need a ticket.
CLERK	Where to?
JOHN	Out of here.
CLERK	But, in particular?
JOHN	I . . . Mexico.  You got a bus that goes to Mexico?  That's where I have to go.
CLERK	Where in Mexico would you like--
JOHN	I don't care, just get me there.

CLERK	We have a bus to Mexico.  Arrives in two hours.  Have to make a couple of connections, but it will get you across the border.
JOHN	How much.
CLERK	One way, or round trip?
JOHN	One way.
CLERK	Thirty even.

JOHN	Twenty-seven, fifty.  That's all I got.
CLERK	The ticket is thirty dollars.
JOHN	I bought a beer.  That was two- fifty.  I bought a beer, otherwise I would have thirty.
CLERK	I'm sorry, sir.  It's thirty dollars for the ticket.
JOHN	Yeah.  Just a little short. Figures.  I just wanted to get out, that's all.

JOHN	Please, you don't understand.  I have to get out of here.  They're going to come looking for me. They're going to kill me.  If I can't get this ticket then I'm going to have to do things to get out of here.  I don't want to hurt anybody, I just want to leave.
CLERK	I'll give you the money!  Okay? I'll give you two-fifty.  Just . . . just, please.

DARRELL	You want somethin'?
JOHN	You Harlin?
DARRELL	Nope.  Darrell.
JOHN	Harlin around?
DARRELL	He's up at the Look Out.

JOHN	Will he be back soon?
DARRELL	Doubt it.  He's dead.  The Look Out's a cemetery.
JOHN	You own this place?
DARRELL	Yep.
JOHN	Then why do you call it Harlin's?
DARRELL	'Cause Harlin used to own it.
JOHN	But he's dead.
DARRELL	So?

JOHN	You want to take a look at my car? I think the radiator hose is--
DARRELL	Damn.  Gonna be another hot one today.

DARRELL	That'll make five in a row.  Never seen it so hot.  Sometimes I don't even want to get out of bed.  I'd rather just lay there and try to catch a breeze.  I was in Mexico this one time--
JOHN	Look, pal, I've got places to be. Could you just take a look at my radiator hose.  It's busted.

DARRELL	It's your radiator hose.  It's busted.
JOHN	I know it's busted.  What did I just tell you?
DARRELL	Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
JOHN	If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time.  Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
DARRELL	Somewhere else?  Mister somewhere else is fifty miles from here.  How you planning on getting it there? You gonna push this heap yourself?
JOHN	Okay, I'm stuck.  You happy?  Now can you fix it, or not?

JOHN	Hey!
DARRELL	Yeah, I can fix it.  Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
JOHN	How much time?
DARRELL	Time.
JOHN	What time is it now?
DARRELL	Twenty-after-ten.
JOHN	Jesus.  Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already.
DARRELL	Ninety-two.  Only gonna get hotter. I remember one time . . .

JOHN	Accident.
DARRELL	You got to be more careful.  I remember one time--
JOHN	Yeah, right.  Someplace in this dust bowl I can get something to drink?
DARRELL	Truck stop up a piece.  Not much, but us simple folk like it.
JOHN	I'll be back in a couple of hours. And be careful with her, will you?
DARRELL	Just a car.

JOHN	Hey.
DARRELL	Hey, your . . . what the hell happened to you.
JOHN	Nothing.
DARRELL	Don't look like nothing.
JOHN	Just banged my head.  It was an accident.
DARRELL	Another accident?  You got to be more careful.

JOHN	Look, I just want to pick up my car.
DARRELL	She's all yours. Put a new hose in it, and she runs like a dream now.
JOHN	How much?
DARRELL	Well . . . parts, labor . . . let's call it a hundred-fifty bucks.
JOHN	How much!?
DARRELL	Hundred-fifty.
JOHN	To replace a God damn radiator hose!?
DARRELL	A God damn radiator hose in a sixty- four-and-a-half Mustang.  You know how long it took me to find that hose?
JOHN	About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
DARRELL	That's about an hour and a half longer than I usually spend looking for parts.  You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy.  What you expect but fancy damn prices?
JOHN	That's a Ford, not a Ferrari.  You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
DARRELL	That's not just a Ford, that's a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang.
JOHN	What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
DARRELL	I don't know, but it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through.  Now you owe me a hundred-fifty dollars.
JOHN	It might as well be fifteen-hundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
DARRELL	Then you ain't gonna have the car.
JOHN	Listen, man.  I got rolled half and hour ago for everything I had.

DARRELL	Then you're only a hundred-forty- five in the hole.  Now why don't you just take your Visa Express Silver Card, call Karl Malden and have him send you the money lickity split.
JOHN	I don't have a credit card.  They took my wallet.
DARRELL	Now that's too bad.  I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you're gonna have to work this one off.
JOHN	You son of a bitch!
DARRELL	Sweet talk me all you want, I still want my hundred-forty-five dollars.

DARRELL	Hey there.  I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back.  You don't look so good.
JOHN	Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a bit.
DARRELL	One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you started?
JOHN	You've been there?
DARRELL	Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog.  Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
JOHN	You believe that?
DARRELL	You think bad, and bad is what you get.
JOHN	That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
DARRELL	No charge.
JOHN	Listen, Darrell, about that hundred- fifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll--
DARRELL	Two-hundred.
JOHN	What?
DARRELL	It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
JOHN	You said this morning the hose was going to run me one-fifty.
DARRELL	Yep.  For the hose.  But while you was gone I replaced a gasket. That's going to run you another fifty.
JOHN	I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
DARRELL	Yeah, but it was shot.
JOHN	I didn't tell you to do it!  You can't just do unauthorized work.
DARRELL	Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you?  I can't do unauthorized work. I suppose I can just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket.  Then you get in an accident and get killed.  Or worse.  Who they gonna blame then?  They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
JOHN	What reputation?  You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumble weed hick.
DARRELL	Is that an insult?  Are you insulting me.
JOHN	Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
DARRELL	Take it.  As soon as I get my money. Fifty dollars for an almost new gasket.  You don't know what kind of a deal you're getting.
JOHN	I'm taking my car, and I'm taking it now!
DARRELL	You listen to me, you fancy city man.  You owe me money, and this car ain't going nowheres until I get it. And if you take another five hours I'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on her.  Now get out of here!  You're stinking up my garage.

JOHN	No!
DARRELL	What's the matter?  The fight gone out of you?  I'm just gonna smash a headlight.  Maybe two.
JOHN	Please, just leave the car alone.
DARRELL	Yeah, you better remember that.

JOHN	Goddamn you!  You son of a bitch!
DARRELL	There you go, sweet talking me again.

DARRELL	What you want?
JOHN	Open up!
DARRELL	We're closed.  Come back in the morning.
JOHN	It is morning.
DARRELL	Come back when the sun comes up.

DARRELL	What the hell . . . oh it's you. Might've figured.  What do you want?
JOHN	I want my car.
DARRELL	You got the money?

DARRELL	Two-hundred dollars in hundred- dollar bills.  And this morning you was broke.
JOHN	What's it to you?
DARRELL	I don't want no dirty money.  I run an honest business.
JOHN	Honest like Al Capone on tax day. Where are my keys?

FLO	Now that you're so well off, can I get you something, Hon?
JOHN	You got beer?
FLO	What would a truck stop be without beer?
JOHN	Let me have a Beck's.
FLO	We ain't got no Beck's.
JOHN	Kirin?
FLO	No, we ain't got no Kirin.  We got Miller.
JOHN	Genuine Draft?
FLO	No.  We got Miller.  Regular Miller. You want it, or don't you?
JOHN	Yeah, give me the Miller.

FLO	Shasta!  Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that?  Sorry about that, hon.  Enjoy your beer, and try to have a nice day.
JOHN	Yeah, I'll try.

SHERIFF	What was that all about?
FLO	You know how that Toby is.  Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
SHERIFF	More like Jenny is after every man she sees.
FLO	You pay Toby no mind.  He just likes to show off for his girl.  Give him a couple of hours, he'll cool off. Still want that beer?

FLO	Poor thing.  Is she all right?
SHERIFF	'Cept that she lost her money and the sons of bitches stole her wedding ring.  That's when she started shooting.  Can't blame her. The ring was all Carlos left her when he died.

FLO	Lord!  Put the baby in the icebox. Killed the poor thing.
SHERIFF	Baby didn't die.  Just froze off all it's finger and toes.  Just a little fingerless, toeless boy now.  But the husband; he sees what the wife's done, so after he saves the baby he locks the wife in the refrigerator to see how she likes it.  Now she died.

FLO	Let me get your change.
SHERIFF	Flo, I'm just gonna help myself to a refill on the coffee.

FLO	Ned!  Now look at what you done! Are you all right?
SHERIFF	I think I burned my gun hand!
FLO	It'd serve you right.  Jose, run get a mop and clean this mess up.

SHERIFF	That yours, Mrs. McKenna?
GRACE	Yes.  Yes it is.
SHERIFF	Taking a little trip?
GRACE	I had a fight with Jake.  I . . . I just wanted to get away for awhile. Mr. Stewart was kind enough to take me as far as Montrose.  I'm going to take a bus to my sister's.  I thought I'd stay with her for a few days.
SHERIFF	Is that right?  Can't say as I blame you for wanting to head out for a bit.  I know I've had my fill of this town.  Sixteen years I've been the law and order here.  So long I forgot why I ever wanted the job in the first place.  Help people, I guess.  Keep the peace.  Problem is there's so much peace around here they don't much need me.  Got a lot of speeders, but they're speeding through miles of nothing so I can't hardly blame them.  Other than that, well, there ain't much to steal.  I reckon that the last big crime we had was, what would you say Mrs. McKenna?  A murder?
GRACE	I . . .

SHERIFF	I could do that.  'Course we'd have to go back into town.  There'd be a whole crowd of people around when the trunk was opened.  A whole crowd of witnesses.  That wouldn't be too pretty, now would it?
GRACE	John . . .

SHERIFF	Is that the way you want it, boy?  A bullet in the head in the middle of the desert?  Ends like this and you won't be able to spend a dime of that blood money.
GRACE	He killed him, Sheriff!  I couldn't stop him!  He made me come with him. He told me if I said a word he would kill me too.

SHERIFF	For the love of God would you two give it a rest?  Lord almighty.  In all my years I have never seen anything so pathetic.  How far did you think you were going to get with this?  Neither one of you can wait to slit the others throat.  Now use what little smarts you got.  If I was going to bust you I wouldn't have waited until after you killed Jake.
GRACE	What do you want?
SHERIFF	Same thing you want.  I want to be out of Sierra; to be able to do as I please.  But that takes money.

SHERIFF	. . .at the very least.  I know there was more than thirty-thousand dollars.  Now, how much did you get?
GRACE	Don't tell him anything.  He can't do this.
SHERIFF	Can't I?  You're out in the desert, all alone, with a body in your trunk.  What do you think, boy?

SHERIFF	There you go, Mrs. McKenna.  Just put it in there.
GRACE	John--

SHERIFF	That wasn't so bad.  What's thirty- some-thousand to rich folks like you?  It didn't hurt a bit.
GRACE	Sheriff Potter.

GRACE	Jake.  I thought you would be at work, dear.
JAKE	Who the hell is this!?

JAKE	Who was that on the phone?
GRACE	Wrong number.
JAKE	You spent a long time talking for a wrong number.  But then you make friends so easily.  Don't you, Grace?

GRACE	I put up new drapes, Jake.
JAKE	I know.  I was here when your apprentice was helping you. Remember?
GRACE	You never said anything.  About the drapes.
JAKE	They look nice.
GRACE	You haven't even looked at them once.

JAKE	They look nice.
GRACE	I picked them out for you, Jake.  I thought you would like the colors.
JAKE	Uh-huh

JAKE	What the hell you looking at, girl?
GRACE	Nothing, Jake.  Absolutely nothing.

GRACE	What's the matter?
JAKE	You didn't hear something?
GRACE	How could I?  I was sleeping.
JAKE	There's someone in the house.
GRACE	I don't hear anything.  You were dreaming.  Or maybe the wind blew something over.
JAKE	The wind isn't blowing.

GRACE	Jake, what is that?
JAKE	What does it look like?
GRACE	When did you buy a gun?

GRACE	Oh my God, Jake, no.  If it is someone they'll go away.  Or call the police.  Don't go out there.
JAKE	What are you afraid of?  I'm the one's got the gun.  Stay here.
GRACE	Jake.  No.  No!

JOHN	Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
GRACE	I'm just going to my car.
JOHN	That's right on my way.

GRACE	My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
JOHN	My name is John.  Now I'm not a stranger anymore.  See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
GRACE	Do you have to call me that?
JOHN	I don't know your real name.
GRACE	Maybe I don't want you to.
JOHN	Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
GRACE	You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
JOHN	My cup runneth over, beauti--
GRACE	It's Grace.
JOHN	May I carry your package, Grace?

JOHN	Jesus.
GRACE	You sure you can manage?
JOHN	I got it.
GRACE	Do you want me to carry your pack for you?

JOHN	No, I've got it.
GRACE	What happened to your hand?
JOHN	Accident.
GRACE	You should be more careful.

GRACE	It's very nice of you to help me. That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
JOHN	No trouble at all, really.

JOHN	Wasn't nothing.
GRACE	Oh, this isn't my car.  It's down a ways.  I should have parked closer. I just didn't think it would be so heavy.  I could drive up.
JOHN	That's all right.  I got it.

JOHN	It's nothing.  Really.
GRACE	I just got tired of looking at the old drapes.  Had them long as I can remember.
JOHN	That a fact?
GRACE	I saw these in the Penny's catalog, and I just knew I had to have them. You ever seen something and just knew you had to have it?
JOHN	Yes, I have.
GRACE	'Course they cost a little more than I should really be spending.  But, damn it, I don't hardly ever do anything nice for myself.  I deserve nice things.
JOHN	I . . . can't . . . argue . . .

GRACE	Thank you, John.
JOHN	You're welcome, Grace.
GRACE	You're not from around here, are you?
JOHN	Why you say that?  Just because I help a lady with her package?
GRACE	You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
JOHN	I just drove in this morning.
GRACE	Drove into Sierra?  What for?
JOHN	Didn't have a choice.  My car overheated up the road.
GRACE	Good luck it didn't happen a few miles back.  Maybe they never would have found you.  Day like today you'd be dead for sure.
JOHN	Yeah, my luck.  I get to be stuck out here in this hole in the desert.
GRACE	Least you can leave.
JOHN	Not until my car's fixed.  I don't know how long that's going to take.
GRACE	And here I've made you all hot and sweaty.

GRACE	Where you coming from?
JOHN	All over.  Chicago, Miami, Detroit. Just lately Albuquerque.
GRACE	You've been around.
JOHN	I guess I've got wander in my blood.
GRACE	Where you headed?
JOHN	I don't know.  I have to make a stop in Vegas.  Business to finish.  Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara.  I might be able to pick up some work there.
GRACE	You just travel around, no direction, no steady work.  You must like taking chances.
JOHN	If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
GRACE	What happens if you lose?
JOHN	I pack up and go somewhere else.
GRACE	Somewhere else.  I've never been anywhere else.  Just once.  Years ago.  Went to the state fair.  It was nice, but it wasn't nothing.
JOHN	I couldn't stay in this place.  I wouldn't.  I'd just pick up, do whatever I had to do, and get out.

JOHN	That's good.  Cools you right off.  I saw you watching me.
GRACE	I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to.
JOHN	I didn't say it bothered me.
GRACE	Did you like it; me watching you?
JOHN	I guess.  I've got an ego same as any man.
GRACE	Good, 'cause I liked what I saw.

JOHN	Nice place you got here.
GRACE	Thank you.

JOHN	Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
GRACE	I guess it must.
JOHN	What do you do anyway?
GRACE	A little of this, a little of that. Mostly I tell fortunes.
JOHN	Where'd you learn to do that?
GRACE	From my father.  He was the tribe's Shaman.
JOHN	A medicine man?
GRACE	Those are white words, not ours.
JOHN	Nice house for a Shaman's daughter. You must be good.
GRACE	Come here.

JOHN	My face tell you all that?
GRACE	It tells me what every face tells me.  Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want.  What is it you want?
JOHN	The same thing you do.

GRACE	There.  All done.  Lift me down.
JOHN	What?
GRACE	Lift me down.

GRACE	You can let go of me now.  I'm safe.  How do they look.
JOHN	Like you.
GRACE	Beautiful?
JOHN	Like they're made of polyester.
GRACE	I like them.  I was sick of looking at this room.  I think they add a little life.
JOHN	Nothing like a little liveliness.

GRACE	No more drapes to hang.  Now what should we do?
JOHN	I have ideas.
GRACE	Such as?

JOHN	All right, Grace.  No more games.
GRACE	Games?
JOHN	You flirt with me, then you run cold.  You lead me on, then slap me down.  I don't go for being jerked around.
GRACE	Really?  And what game did you want to play?  You carry my box for me, and I fall into bed with you?

JOHN	I think I can find my own way back to into town.
GRACE	Maybe I like to find out about a man first.  Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
JOHN	I'm just flesh and blood, baby. That and a few memories of bad women; just like most guys.  But you already know that.  You read my fortune.  Thanks for the lemonade.

GRACE	You never did answer my question.
JOHN	Still playing?
GRACE	That's not an answer.  What is it you want?
JOHN	You know what I want.
GRACE	Maybe I just want to hear you say it.

JOHN	Damn it, Grace!  Tell him.
GRACE	If he says that's what happened, Jake, it must be true.

JOHN	Doesn't the heat bother you?
GRACE	Yeah, but I like the sun.  I grew up on a reservation.  The sun, the desert; they were like a religion to us.  Jake's the same way.  He loves the desert.  I guess we're alike that way.  That's about the only way.
JOHN	You love him?
GRACE	No.
JOHN	Did you ever?
GRACE	Depends on what you call love.  When I was growing up I had nothing.  I learned to want everything.  I wanted more than Sierra anyway. Jake was my ticket.  He's not much; he's older than me, different than me, but he's got more money than half this town put together.  I courted him.  I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line.  I wanted him.  I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him.  Is that love?
JOHN	I'm guessing no.
GRACE	Yeah, I guess you're right.
JOHN	And I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
GRACE	I'm still here, aren't I?  See this?

GRACE	All this nothing?  I've spent my life in this stinking desert.  It doesn't get to Jake like it got to me.  He doesn't mind being out here. He doesn't mind being nothing but a land broker.  Big fish in a small pond, he says.  More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole.
JOHN	You could just leave him.
GRACE	I don't know how.
JOHN	You just walk away.
GRACE	It's not that easy.  Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please.  I can't.  I don't want to be alone.  I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
JOHN	You need a meal ticket is what you mean.  Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
GRACE	Is that so bad?  It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy.  For awhile, anyway.  I mean, I would . . . do things for him.  I guess I'm no good that way.  I guess I tried to sucker you along like that.  Do you hate me for it?  I wouldn't blame you if you did.  But maybe it's like you said:  You just got to do whatever it takes to get out.
JOHN	Whatever it takes.

GRACE	How far is it to California?
JOHN	From here?  I don't know.  Far.  Far enough.
GRACE	Have you ever been there before?
JOHN	Yeah.
GRACE	Is it pretty?
JOHN	Beautiful.  Beautiful beaches.  Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see.
GRACE	Take me with you.
JOHN	I can't.
GRACE	Please.  I won't hang on you.  As soon as we get there you can dump me.  I don't care.  I just want to get out of here.
JOHN	Grace, I can't.  I can't even get out of here myself.  I need a hundred-fifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic.
GRACE	I know where we could get the money. A lot more than one-hundred-fifty dollars.
JOHN	Where?
GRACE	Jake.
JOHN	You think Jake's going to give me money just so I can take you out of here?
GRACE	He doesn't give it to us.  We take it.
JOHN	From?
GRACE	He's got money.  In a floor safe in the living room.  I've never seen it, but he talks about it all the time.  More like brags.  He loves his money.  Wouldn't think of spending some of it on me.
JOHN	You live pretty good.
GRACE	Yeah, a bird in a gilded cage.
JOHN	How much money has he got?
GRACE	Near as I can figure must be about a hundred-thousand.
JOHN	One-hundred-thousand!?  That son-of- a-bitch lied to me.
GRACE	Lied?  What do you mean?
JOHN	I . . . nothing.  Just something he said.  So if the money's in a safe we'd have to get the combination--
GRACE	It's not a combination lock.  It takes a key.  He keeps it on him all the time.  I mean all the time.  It scratches up against me when we do it.
JOHN	If the key's on him, to get the key we'd have to . . .
GRACE	We'd have to kill him.

GRACE	John?  John where are you going?
JOHN	I think this heat is making me crazy.  I was crazy to come back here, I'm crazy for listening to anyone in this town, and I'd sure as hell be crazy if I spent another minute in this place.
GRACE	John, please--
JOHN	I don't know what I was thinking, but I can't do it.
GRACE	What are you talking about?
JOHN	Kill someone.  I can't do it.
GRACE	Is it so bad?  It would be quick. He wouldn't even have to feel it.

JOHN	Shit!
GRACE	It's not like he's a young man. He's had time to live.
JOHN	Jesus Christ!  Listen to yourself! I can't do it, Grace.  I can't do it.

GRACE	I thought you would be on your way to Vegas by now.  Is there something you wanted?
JOHN	I wanted to talk.
GRACE	I don't think we have anything to talk about.
JOHN	What about us?
GRACE	There is no us, remember?
JOHN	Except I can't get you out of my head, Grace.
JOHN	I've thought about you every second since I left.  I can still taste you on my lips.
GRACE	Stop it.
JOHN	Why?  Am I making you hot, or does the truth scare you?
GRACE	Because I know you're full of shit.
JOHN	I mean it, Grace.  I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
GRACE	I thought you couldn't leave.  I thought you couldn't get your car.
JOHN	I could if I had Jake's money.
GRACE	Is that what changed your mind?  The money?
JOHN	I don't give a damn about the money. I want you, and I want to get us out of this shithole.  There's only one way to do that.
GRACE	Are you sure?  About me, I mean?
JOHN	I came back for you; this morning I came back.  Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want.
JOHN	The only reason I stormed off is because you sort of spooked me talking about Jake.  But I've had nothing but time to think about it. It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here. But we've got to get the money, baby.  We get the money, I get the car, then we get the hell out.
GRACE	You said you couldn't kill anybody.
JOHN	We don't have to kill him.  Just knock him out and tie him up 'till we get away.

JOHN	Grace . . . Grace?
GRACE	After dark.  I'll leave the back door unlocked.

JOHN	Why the hell didn't you do anything?
GRACE	What was I supposed to do?
JOHN	You could have hit him, or kneed him in the balls.

JOHN	Where's the safe?
GRACE	I don't know.
JOHN	You don't know?  Jesus Christ! Don't you think you should have found out before we killed him?
GRACE	I'm not sure where it is.  Not exactly.  I never saw it.  I just heard him talk about it.
JOHN	Oh, that's great.  We killed Jake because you heard him talk about some money that you've never seen. That's fucking brilliant!
GRACE	Don't yell at me!

JOHN	Nothing.  There's no safe under here.
GRACE	There has to be!
JOHN	There isn't!  There's nothing under here but more floor.  Jesus fucking Christ!  We killed a man for nothing but floor.

GRACE	It's got to be here.  I heard him talk about it.  He bragged about it. Six steps out, three left.
JOHN	This is good.  This is real good. This is so good they might not even charge us with murder when they catch us.  They'll probably just lock us up for being idiots.
GRACE	If it isn't here, why would he wear that stupid key?
JOHN	You're calling Jake stupid?  You!?
GRACE	Don't yell at me!  I know it's here! I know it!

JOHN	There's easily a hundred-thousand in there.  More than that.
GRACE	I told you.  I knew it was there. Didn't I tell you?

GRACE	If you want.
JOHN	We're going all the way.  Together.

JOHN	Let's go in the bedroom.
GRACE	No.

GRACE	Let's do it here.
JOHN	What about him?
GRACE	Let him watch.  I want him to know what he's missing.

JOHN	You got a suitcase?
GRACE	Never needed one.  I've never been anywhere.  I've got a backpack.
JOHN	Get it, and put the money in it. Pack up anything else you want to take with you.
GRACE	Where are you going?
JOHN	To get my car.
GRACE	Wait.  What about . . . him?
JOHN	Put some clothes on him.  When I get back We'll load him in the trunk and dump him in the desert.  It'll takes days for anybody to find him.

GRACE	John!?  What the hell's the matter with you?
JOHN	I . . . nothing.  I just stubbed my toe on a rock.  Hurt like hell . . . that's all.
GRACE	I got the money all packed.  I put the jeep in the garage.  Figure that way people will think maybe me and Jake went away.  Might buy us some time.
JOHN	Yeah.  Good thinking.
GRACE	Had push it in.  Funny thing; it wouldn't start.
JOHN	Funny thing.

GRACE	John . . .?
JOHN	Grace!  Just . . . let me handle this.  Sheriff, I'm telling you there's nothing in that trunk.  If that's not good enough for you, then I'd be happy to open it.  Just as soon as you get yourself a search warrant.

GRACE	Sheriff Potter, please.  I can't go to jail.  I wanted no part of it.
JOHN	You liar!  You wanted him dead.  You seduced me into killing him!

JOHN	One-hundred-thousand dollars.  A little more.
GRACE	Damn you!  What did you do that for? He can't prove anything.
JOHN	No, you just wanted me to keep my mouth shut so I could go to a hanging alone.

GRACE	That's all talk.  He's got nothing on us.  He let you kill Jake.
JOHN	Not me.  Us.
GRACE	It doesn't matter.  He was there and he let it happen.  He can't take us in.
JOHN	Give him the money.
GRACE	What?
JOHN	You heard me.  Count it out.
GRACE	He can't prove anything, John.  He can't turn us in.
JOHN	He can kill us.  I don't know about you, but my life is worth thirty- thousand dollars.

GRACE	I shot him.
JOHN	You killed him!
GRACE	He was going to take the money.
JOHN	Thirty-thousand, that's all.  We would have been free and clear.  You didn't have to kill him.
GRACE	It's our money.  He had no right to take it.

JOHN	You're crazy, you know that!? You're fucked up!?
GRACE	Just drive.

JOHN	Jesus, Grace.  Did you have to kill him?
GRACE	He was going to--
JOHN	I know.  He was to take the fucking money.
GRACE	You're tense.  What are you all uptight about?
JOHN	You killed a man for no reason!

GRACE	Is that the kind of girl you think I am?  What can I do to make you relax?
JOHN	You could give me the gun.

JOHN	Well, nothing.
GRACE	Now what?
JOHN	Now we dump Jake, split the money, then you're on your own.
GRACE	But you said we could be together.
JOHN	Are you kidding?  I'm not going down with you for killing a cop.
GRACE	What difference does it make?  You killed Jake.
JOHN	<u>We</u> killed Jake.  And it's a big difference.  You kill an old man, that's one thing.  Nobody cares about an old man.  You kill a cop and they never stop looking for you. Never.
GRACE	He was a crooked bastard.  He would have killed us.
JOHN	The police don't know that.  And it's going to be hard to explain it to them with a noose around your neck.  I'll take you as far as California.  If we can even make that.  After that I'm cutting you loose.
GRACE	But I want to say with you,
JOHN	Why?  So when the cops catch up with us you can try and sell me out again?  You take your hald of the money and run.  You might want to try Mexico.  With all that dough you'll live like a queen.
GRACE	I don't want to go to Mexico, John. I want to be with you.  Don't you think I care about you?
JOHN	I think you're a lying, back stabbing bitch.  But it's nice to know you care.

GRACE	John!
JOHN	Grace!

GRACE	Are you all right?
JOHN	I think I busted my leg.
GRACE	Can you climb back up.

JOHN	I can't make it.  Grace?  Grace!?
GRACE	I'm here.
JOHN	Grace, listen to me.  In the trunk of my car is a rope.  It should reach down here.  Got get it, throw it down and I'll climb up.
GRACE	I'll get it.

GRACE	John!  Can you hear me?  Are you still there?
JOHN	Where the hell am I going to go?
GRACE	John, you have to throw the keys up to me.

GRACE	John, throw me the keys.
JOHN	What for?
GRACE	The trunk.  It's locked.
JOHN	It's not locked.  I left it open when I took out Jake's body.
GRACE	It's . . . it's locked.
JOHN	You closed it, didn't you, Grace?
GRACE	I was going to back the car to the ridge and pull you up.
JOHN	Bullshit, Grace.  You were going to drive off and leave me here.
GRACE	No.  I swear it.
JOHN	And you're not one to lie, are you?
GRACE	Throw me the keys and I'll pull you up.
JOHN	Why don't you come down and get them so I can wring your pretty little neck?

GRACE	John, if you don't throw me the keys, then I'll just walk away. Walk away and leave you here.
JOHN	Walk to where?  We're fifty miles to the nearest town.  It's going to be over one-hundred degrees today.  How far do you think you're going to get?
GRACE	Someone will find me.
JOHN	Yeah, they'll find you.  Dried up and twice dead.
GRACE	You idiot!  You'll kill us both!
JOHN	At least I'll have company when I die.  Ain't that right, Jake?
GRACE	For Christ's sake, John!  Throw me the keys!
JOHN	What do you say, Jake?  Should we trust her?  No?  I didn't think so.
GRACE	Fuck you!  Do you hear me, John!? Fuck you!  John . . . John!?

JOHN	Who the hell are you?
JAKE	I'm her husband.
JOHN	Husband . . .?
JAKE	Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in half.
JOHN	I . . I was helping your wife.  I met her in town.  She needed a hand with her drapes.  That's all.
JAKE	Didn't much look like you were hanging drapes.
JOHN	I swear to you that's all that happened.  I haven't so much as set foot in your bedroom.
JAKE	A lot that means.
JOHN	Grace, tell him.

JAKE	I have half a mind to--
JOHN	Is this what it's all about?  You sucker me up here so you can watch the two of us beat the shit out of each other over you?  Forget it.  You want to take my head off, Mister, I won't even try to stop you.  I deserve it for being an idiot.  But if you're not, I think I'll be on my way.

JAKE	What happened to your hand?
JOHN	Accident.
JAKE	You've got to be--
JOHN	Yeah, I know.  More careful.
JAKE	I guess we've never been introduced proper.  Jake McKenna.
JOHN	Jake McKenna.  That's a solid name.
JAKE	I'm a solid man.
JOHN	John Stewart.
JAKE	What brings you to Sierra?
JOHN	My car overheated.  I pulled in to have it fixed.
JAKE	Where you headed?
JOHN	I've got to make a stop in Vegas, then I'm heading to Santa Barbara.
JAKE	Live there?
JOHN	Got work.  I know a man who's got a boat.  Wants me to sail it for him.
JAKE	You a sailor man?  That'd be the life.  Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away. A man could pretty well disappear like that.  Just sail away until all he was was a memory.  I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
JOHN	I hope so.  Listen, Mr. McKenna, about your wife:  If I had known she was married--
JAKE	It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it?  Not a wit. Do you know why?  Because you're a man without scruples.
JOHN	Wait a second--
JAKE	Ah, I can smell it on you.

JOHN	Hey!
JAKE	That's the sweat of a man who hasn't an honest bone in his body.  Don't be offended, lad.  A man who's got no ethics is a free man.  I envy you that.  Beside, I can hardly blame you.  That Grace has a mind of her own, and a body to match, don't she? Eh?

JAKE	She does at that.  I knew when I married her she was a free spirit. A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect?  But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her.  What are you to do, eh?  Women.
JOHN	Can't live with them, and you can't shoot 'em.

JAKE	I bet she led you on good, didn't she?  Taking you up to the house with that smile of hers.  Bet she wiggled her ass in your face more than once.  Then me busting in like some wild bear.  Bet you had a fire going under you.
JOHN	Like you don't know.
JAKE	Mad like a dog in heat, I bet you were.  I can tell you got a temper on you.

JAKE	Would you?
JOHN	Would I what?
JAKE	Would you kill her?

JOHN	Why would I kill her?
JAKE	Because I'm sick and tired of her little games.  Because you could do it and drift away on your boat and no one would ever see you again. Because I've got a fifty-thousand dollar life insurance policy on her, and I would be more than happy to give the man who does her in a good chunk of it.

JOHN	I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
JAKE	How do you know if you've never tried?
JOHN	This is a joke, right?  You just want to rattle me.  Right?

JAKE	Good Lord.  What happened to you?
JOHN	Just ran into a little trouble.
JAKE	Another accident?  You've really got to be more careful.  Can I get you a drink?
JOHN	No.
JAKE	Hungry?
JOHN	No.
JAKE	I'm surprised to see you.  I thought you'd be halfway to Vegas by now.
JOHN	I had a problem getting my car back.
JAKE	You just seem to attract trouble, don't you?

JOHN	Nice office you've got.
JAKE	I do all right.  Real estate isn't a bad game such as it is around here. The trick is to underestimate the price when you buy it, and overvalue when you sell.  You can turn a few dollars that way.
JOHN	Isn't that illegal?

JAKE	Now what can I do for you?
JOHN	I was hoping we could talk.
JAKE	Talk?  About what?
JOHN	About things.  About your wife.
JAKE	Sweet Grace?  What about her?
JOHN	About what you said this morning.

JOHN	You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife.  Fifty-thousand dollars.
JAKE	I do.
JOHN	You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
JAKE	I did?
JOHN	Don't play simple with me, Jake. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
JAKE	I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
JOHN	I'm not rambling.
JAKE	You're talking like a mad man.
JOHN	You're the one who brought it up. This morning.  In your car.
JAKE	That was just loose talk.  I don't want anybody dead.
JOHN	Bullshit.  You wanted me to kill her.
JAKE	A man doesn't always mean the things he says.
JOHN	You meant it.
JAKE	What makes you say that?
JOHN	Because I think you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
JAKE	And what does that make you?
JOHN	The slimy bastard who's going to do it for you.

JAKE	Let's say I do want her dead.  What is it you want?  This morning you weren't a killer.
JOHN	This morning I didn't know how badly I'd want to get out of this fucking town.
JAKE	And for that you'd kill Grace?
JOHN	For that I'd kill a nun on Easter Sunday.
JAKE	Just to get out of here?  That doesn't seem much for a murder.
JOHN	How do you put a price on murder?
JAKE	I put it at fifty-thousand dollars, minus your cut, of course.  Which is?
JOHN	Make it twenty.
JAKE	Twenty-thousand?  I don't have that kind of money.  I won't get the insurance until months after she's dead.  I don't imagine you'll want to be around after poor Grace's demise.  Twenty-thousand; that's more money than I could ever get my hands on.
JOHN	How much could you get?
JAKE	Maybe . . . ten-thousand.  And that's a maybe.
JOHN	I need thirteen.
JAKE	That's a bit much.
JOHN	You're not buying a car, for Christ sake.  You're having your wife killed.  I'm the one who's neck is stuck out.  It's thirteen, or it's nothing.

JAKE	You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
JOHN	I'm not your boy, Jake.  I don't like you, and I don't like what you are.  I got no choice but to do business with you.  This is just a nasty little marriage of convenience.
JAKE	Don't say that.  I had a marriage of convenience with Grace, and look where that's lead.  Well, looks like we got ourselves a pact.
JOHN	Do we shake hands?
JAKE	If you can't trust the man you've hired to kill your wife . . .?

JOHN	I guess I might as well get this done with.
JAKE	The sooner it's over, the sooner you're on your way.  Now listen to me:  It's got to look like an accident; that's the thing.  If it doesn't, then it's no good.  I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
JOHN	What should I do?
JAKE	How the hell should I know?  I've never had a wife killed before.  I guess I should have hired a professional.
JOHN	You want to do this yourself?  I don't have to do this, you know.
JAKE	Be quiet, boy.  I'm thinking.  It can't be done at the house.  It should be . . .

JAKE	This is what you do:  Go to the house to see her.
JOHN	And tell her what?

JOHN	I went to your place.  We talked, just like you told me.  We drove out into the desert . . .
JAKE	Is the job done?
JOHN	No.
JAKE	You didn't kill her?
JOHN	The time wasn't right.
JAKE	You're out in the desert, the middle of nowhere with no one around for miles, and you say the time wasn't right?  What's the matter?  You were hoping to get it on home video?  A keepsake for the grandkids.  Thank God I waited, or I never would have gotten it on tape.
JOHN	You know what I mean.
JAKE	I know all right.  I know you're just enough of a shit to have a go at bedding a man's wife.  You've probably bagged a few at that. You'd probably lie, cheat and steal without thinking twice.  From that you'd just turn and walk away.  But to kill; to get that blood on your hands.  You can't wash that off. You'd be a marked man for life. Just like Cain.  And you're a sinner who wants to walk with the saints. Ain't that right, boy?
JOHN	You know so much about killing why don't you do it yourself?
JAKE	I guess I have what you'd call a love-hate relationship with Grace.
JOHN	You love her, but you hate her?
JAKE	I hate loving her.  I hate the kind of her person she is.  I hate having to tolerate the little games she plays.  I hate letting her use me. But I love her too much to do otherwise.  And I certainly love her too much to kill her.  I couldn't stand to watch her eyes roll back in her head as she sucks her last breath, or to see her pretty pink brains spill from her skull.  But you?  You got the killing in you, boy.
JOHN	Shut up.
JAKE	Came close this time and it scares you.
JOHN	Drop it, Jake.
JAKE	And next time, next time somebody is going to get dead.
JOHN	SHUT UP!

JOHN	Jake, how much were you going to pay me to do the job?
JAKE	Thirteen-thousand dollars.  Had you done it.  Isn't that what we agreed on?
JOHN	You think that's a lot of money?
JAKE	All I have in the world.
JOHN	That's what I like about you, Jake. You're an honest man.

JAKE	Maybe not this time, but somebody's going to get dead around you.
JOHN	No.

JOHN	Yeah, well, me too.
JAKE	Trouble with the car again?
JOHN	You could say.  I don't even have it yet.
JAKE	Darrell giving you problems?
JOHN	He did more work on the car.  He wants fifty bucks extra for it.
JAKE	Fifty dollars more.  That's a lot of money when you don't have a dime. And where'd you plan on getting the money from?  Maybe you thought you'd pay your friend Jake McKenna a visit.
JOHN	It's not like that.
JAKE	Maybe you heard old Jake's got some money stashed away and you thought you'd help yourself to a little.
JOHN	Wait a minute.  Just listen to me--
JAKE	You thought you'd come in here in the middle of the night and wham! Wail off and clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper.
JOHN	Jake--
JAKE	And then with Jake out of the way you could borrow two-hundred dollars.  Or maybe two-thousand.  Or twenty-thousand.  Who's to stop you? Not Jake McKenna, 'cause old Jake would be dead.
JOHN	That's not the reason I'm here.  I swear it.
JAKE	There's another reason?  It better be good.
JOHN	I came for Grace.
JAKE	You came to take my wife from me?
JOHN	I came to kill her.
JAKE	Liar.
JOHN	It's the truth, Jake.
JAKE	That's a thick change of heart.
JOHN	Yeah, well, a couple of hours ago I just about killed some guy over a girl.  Not for money, for a girl. And she was just going to stand there and let it happen, or let him kill me.  Same way Grace played us this morning.  I don't like that, Jake.  Not twice in one day.  And maybe I'm so pissed I'd twist the next off my own Grandma to get out of here.
JAKE	That's a lot of talk.  A whole lot of talk.
JOHN	Damn it, Jake.  If I don't get out of here some guys are going to come gunning for me.  And if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace.  You were going to give me thirteen-thousand.  Give me two- hundred.  I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. But I need the money.  I've got to have the money.

JAKE	I'm curious about something.  I'm wondering just how it is you happen to know where the bedroom's at.
JOHN	Wh . . . what are you talking about?
JAKE	This morning when I came in on you and Grace, you swore you hadn't so much as been near the bedroom.  Now you make straight for it.
JOHN	Come on, Jake--
JAKE	Don't Jake me, boy!  It's a big house.  Odd that you would know your way, except maybe you've been in the bedroom before.  Maybe with Grace to keep you company.
JOHN	Nothing happened with me and Grace this morning.
JAKE	Then maybe this afternoon.  When I sent you to kill my wife you ended up sexing her instead.
JOHN	Christ, Jake, please--
JAKE	Is that what happened?  Did you even make it out to the desert, or did you just ply the afternoon between my sheets?
JOHN	You're not talking sense.
JAKE	Sense?  If I had any sense I would have killed you this morning and been done with it.
JOHN	What are you . . . you can't . . . you can't kill me.
JAKE	A drifter, a loner, a trouble maker like you?  Just passing through town, need money so he busts in on an, old man.  Only this old man's got himself an automatic, and he knows how to use it.  A man's got to protect his home.  His wife.  You're dead, boy, and your own mother wouldn't convict me.
JOHN	What difference does it make if I slept with her.  You don't care about Grace.
JAKE	You're right.  I don't give a damn about her.  But to fuck a man's wife behind his back?  That just makes a fool out of him.  I don't like being made a fool of.
JOHN	I don't blame you.  What man would? I admit it, okay?  I came back here and I made it with Grace.  But if you kill me you're making a big mistake.
JAKE	Not from where I stand.
JOHN	It's not me you have to worry about. It's her.  She wants you dead, Jake. She wants you dead and she wants your money.
JAKE	What are you babbling about?
JOHN	Think about it.  How do you think I got in here?  Did you hear any glass break?  Did you hear a door splinter?  How did the evening end? After you went to bed did she linger a bit?  Maybe just long enough to leave the back door unlocked?  Is that what happened?

JAKE	You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
JOHN	You know what kind of woman Grace is.  You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Sierra.  What makes you think when you were planning on killing her she wasn't doing the same for you?  What's she to you, Jake; a woman who would have you dead?  Let me kill her.  All I want is two-hundred dollars to get out of here with.
JAKE	Two-hundred dollars.
JOHN	Two-hundred dollars . . . that's how I put a price on murder.

TOBY	I asked you a question.
JENNY	Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing. We was just talking.
TOBY	You shut your mouth, girl, and get back over to our table.  Now, I'm not going to ask you again, Mister.  What were you doing with my girl?

JENNY	Honest, Toby.  I just asked him for a quarter for the jukebox.
TOBY	Stay out of this, Jenny.  We got man's business to take care of.

JENNY	I want to stay.
TOBY	I said come on!

JENNY	Toby!  Toby Tyler, leave him alone!
TOBY	You stay away, Jenny.  I aim to mess him up, and that ain't a thing for a woman to see.

JENNY	Hey, Mister.  You gotta quarter?
JOHN	What?
JENNY	I wanna play a song on the juke. You got a quarter?

JENNY	What happened to your hand?
JOHN	Accident, and yeah, I got to be more careful.
JENNY	Got any requests?
JOHN	That country shit all sounds the same to me.
JENNY	How about I pick one out for you?

JENNY	You like Patsy Cline?  I just love her.  How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
JOHN	She's dead.
JENNY	Gee, that's sad.  Don't that make you sad?
JOHN	I've had time to get over it.
JENNY	You're not from around here, are you?  Where you from?
JOHN	Oz.
JENNY	You ain't from Oz.  Oz is in that one movie.
JOHN	You're too quick for me.

JENNY	Hey, Mister.  Mister.  I just. . . I just wanted to thank you.
JOHN	For what?
JENNY	For defending my honor this afternoon.
JOHN	I hate to bust your bubble, but I wasn't defending you.
JENNY	But you was going to fight for me.
JOHN	I wasn't going to fight for you.  I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend.
JENNY	He's not my boyfriend.  I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for.  Not yet that is.
JOHN	Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you.  If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him.  You're not going to get much better in this town.
JENNY	That's what I thought until you came riding in.  I saw your car over at the gas station.  It's cool.  Want to take me for a ride?  Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
JOHN	How old are you?
JENNY	Eighteen.  Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
JOHN	No, I don't want to take you for a ride.  What I want is for . . . Hey, you don't happen to have a hundred and fifty dollars I could--

JENNY	You're too late, Toby.  We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind.
JOHN	What the hell are you talking about?
JENNY	What's your name anyway?

JENNY	Toby Tyler, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
JOHN	Will you shut up!

JENNY	Don't be afraid of him none.  I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together.
JOHN	Get away from me!

JOHN	I wasn't doing anything.
TOBY	That's not the way it looked to me. Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her.
JOHN	Make time?  Is everybody in this town slap happy?

JOHN	Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
TOBY	You expect me to believe that?
JOHN	I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
TOBY	Mister, I'm calling you out.
JOHN	What?  You want to fight?  Over her?

JOHN	You're fucked.
TOBY	You know who I am?  Toby N. Tyler. My friends call me TNT. You know why?
JOHN	They're not very imaginative?
TOBY	'Cause I'm just like dynamite.  And when I go off somebody gets hurt.
JOHN	Fine.  I was making time with your girl.  Now I'm all scared, and I'll never make that mistake again.  Now go away.
TOBY	Not before I settle with you.
JOHN	Christ, I don't believe this.
TOBY	Stand up.
JOHN	I wasn't hitting on your girl!
TOBY	Stand up, Mister, or I'll beat you where you sit.

TOBY	Mister!
JOHN	Oh, shit!

TOBY	That's right, Mister.  You better be afraid.  I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen.  Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
JOHN	I wasn't sneaking around with your girl.  Would you please tell him?

TOBY	Oh, that tears it, Mister.  I'm gonna bust you up but good.  I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then . . . and then bust those pieces up, and then . . . and then spread them all around.  That's what I'm gonna do.  You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister.  I'm crazy.  I'm psycho crazy.
JOHN	Yeah, I know.  You're TNT.  Just like dynamite.  When you go off somebody gets hurt.  All right.  Let's do this.

TOBY	Get up, Mister!  Don't ever let it be said Toby Tyler beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance.
JOHN	What the hell are you doing?  Are you crazy?
TOBY	I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended.  I'm beating you up.
JOHN	You stupid punk!  You don't even know what you're fighting over!
TOBY	My honor, that's what I'm fighting over.  Now get up off the ground, or do I have to whoop you where you lie?

TOBY	Now, what's this?
JOHN	Give it to me!
TOBY	Mexico?  You're going to Mexico?
JOHN	I'm leaving.  You never have to see me again.  Just please, give me the ticket!
TOBY	This means something to you?  Jenny means something to me.

JOHN	Nooo!
TOBY	I'm gonna beat you so bad you gonna be eatin' nothing but soup the rest of your days.  Rain dogs is gonna be prettier than you when I'm done. I'm gonna mess you up so bad you gonna make your own momma sick.  I'm gonna . . .

MR. VESCI	John, what a surprise.  I expected to be seeing you, not talking to you over the phone.
JOHN	I know, Mr. Vesci.  I know.  I was on my way to you, it's just . . . what a day I've had.  You're not going to believe what's happened to me. I had the money, I swear I had it. I was on my way to you when my car breaks down in the middle of nowhere.

MR. VESCI	That's a shame, John.  A real shame.
JOHN	You don't know the how, Mr. Vesci. And that's not the half of it.  I've got your money, and I go into this little grocery store to get something to eat and it gets robbed.
MR. VESCI	Let me guess.  This robber; he gets your money.
JOHN	No.  He gets shot by the old lady.
MR. VESCI	The old lady?
JOHN	With a shotgun.  It kills him, and it shreads the money.  I mean, what are the odds?
MR. VESCI	You're the gambler.  You tell me.
JOHN	I had to beat it before the cops showed up.  I don't have a cent to my name.  I can't even get my car out of the garage.  I tell you, Mr. Vesci, if it weren't for bad luck I wouldn't have any at all.  So, I was wondering if you could wire me a hundred fifty-dollars so I could get my car.  I'll pay it back with the rest of the money.

MR. VESCI	Let me get this straight:  You owe me thirteen-thousand dollars, you call me - collect - then ask me to wire you one-hundred-fifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed.
JOHN	A hundred-forty-five really.
MR. VESCI	A hundred and . . . Now you listen to me you deadbeat, little punk:  I don't care if you got hit by a truck and run over by a steamroller.  You owe me thirteen-thousand dollars and I want it.  I don't care how you get it, or where from, but I want it on my desk tomorrow, or I'll show you what real bad luck is.

MR. VESCI	Do you understand me you little fuck?
JOHN	Yes, Mr. Vesci.
MR. VESCI	And John, don't make me come look for you.

MR. VESCI	Fucking kid.  And look at you; breaking fucking pencils.  You're a Neanderthal.
JOHN	Hello?  Hello!?  Operator, I got disconnected.  Hello . . .

SHERIFF	Kids.
JOHN	Yeah.  What are you going to do? That Toby's a hot head.
SHERIFF	He is at that.  No so much a fault of his own.  Poor boy had quite a trauma as a child.
JOHN	What happened?
SHERIFF	His father worked in a strip mine north of here.  Toby's school class went up to the mine one day.  School takes field trips up there every year.  Big day for the kids when they can see ore tore up out of the ground.  Anyway, on this particular day Toby's dad up and falls into the machinery.
JOHN	Jesus!
SHERIFF	Yep.  Tore him up good and spat out little, refined pieces of him. Nothing like the embarrassment of having your father refined in front of your classmates to put the anger in a young man.
JOHN	I guess.
SHERIFF	Like I said; you really can't blame the boy.  Some people don't know how to avoid trouble.  Know what I mean?

SHERIFF	Saw you at the truck stop this morning.  You're not from around here.
JOHN	No, sir.  And I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
SHERIFF	Just curious.  That's a nasty cut you've got.
JOHN	Not as bad as it looks.
SHERIFF	There was a young man over at Jamilla's today when it got hit. Way she tells it he got whacked around by one of the robbers.
JOHN	Wouldn't know anything about it.
SHERIFF	That's too bad.  I was hoping you were there.  Maybe you could help us catch the guy who got away.  Or maybe you could explain about all that money that got tore up when Jamilla shot that biker.
JOHN	Wish I could help, Sheriff.  But if you'll excuse me I'm going over to Harlin's to pick up my car.  Then I'm getting the hell out of this place.
SHERIFF	Stay as long as you like, son.  No rush.
JOHN	Maybe not for you, Sheriff, but I think I've had my fill of your little town.

SHERIFF	Nice night for a drive.  Morning really.  I guess that's about the only way to keep cool; riding around with the top down on a fancy convertible in the first hours of the day.
JOHN	Not taking a drive, Sheriff. Heading out of town.
SHERIFF	Suppose you've had all you can of Sierra.  What with that ruckus you had with Toby.  Oh yes, I heard all about that.
JOHN	Sheriff, he didn't give me any choice.  If I hadn't defended myself- -
SHERIFF	Just cool down, son.  I ain't accusing you of anything.  Serves Toby right to get his ass whooped. If you hadn't done it, somebody else would've.
JOHN	Is there a problem up the road, Sheriff?
SHERIFF	Nope.  No problems up the road.

SHERIFF	Why don't you step out of the car, son?
JOHN	I don't understand what the--
SHERIFF	Just step from the car.  Nice and slow.
JOHN	Sure, Sheriff.

SHERIFF	Now step around to the back of the car and open the trunk for me.
JOHN	What for?
SHERIFF	I think you might just want to do as I say.
JOHN	There's nothing in the trunk, Sheriff.
SHERIFF	And as soon as I see that you're on your way.

JOHN	You bitch!  You were in on it froom the start!
SHERIFF	Shut up!  The both of you.  Ain't neither one of you too smart. Especially you, boy.  Don't you think I had my eye on you since first you rolled into town?  You smell like trouble.  Stink of it like a ripe cesspool.
JOHN	I didn't do anything.
SHERIFF	Killing Jake McKenna's got to amount to something.  He wasn't much of a man, but that don't give you the right to murder him.  And don't tell me you didn't, 'cause I know you did.  I was there.  Like I said; I been watching you.

JOHN	That's what this is all about?  A shakedown?  You picked the wrong people.  We don't have any money.
SHERIFF	Sure you do.  Everybody in town knows about the money Jake kept hid in the house.  It's a wonder the Mrs. here just now got round to killing him.  Not for lack of trying.

SHERIFF	What'd you think, boy?  That you were the first man to drift through this town she came on to?  Not by a long shot.  You're just the most gullible.  How much did you get?
JOHN	Thirty-thousand dollars.
SHERIFF	You ain't passing these test, son. If I can't trust you I'm gonna have to arrest you . . .

SHERIFF	Nobody's going to hang.  We're all gonna walk away with a little something.  I ain't a greedy man. And, hell, you did all the work. One-hundred-thousand dollars.  Split that three ways and it comes out to about thirty-three thousand.  Give or take.
JOHN	And you're taking?

JOHN	Got any cold soda?
WOMAN	Eh?
JOHN	Soda.  You got any soda?
WOMAN	Hablar slowly, por favor.  My ingles no es bien.
JOHN	Soda.  You know.

WOMAN	I call the policia.
JOHN	No!

JOHN	No police.
WOMAN	But, Senor--
JOHN	No police!  Wait until I'm gone.
WOMAN	Senor, you need a doctor.
JOHN	No police!

GALVIN	Mr. Abraham...
ABRAMS	Abrams...
GALVIN	Abrams.  Yes.  How are you today?
ABRAMS	I'm fine.
GALVIN	Good.    You ever been inside a hospital?
ABRAMS	Yes.
GALVIN	Ah.  How did they treat you?

ALITO	Why did he go to see Mary Rooney?
YOUNG LAWYER	She's the only nurse who isn't testifying for the Doctors.
ALITO	What did he find?
YOUNG LAWYER	Nothing.
ALITO	How good's your intelligence?
YOUNG LAWYER	Very good.
ALITO	And so what is the rest of his case aside from Dr. Thompson?
YOUNG LAWYER	As far as we know, nothing.

BISHOP	He was accused of jury tampering.
ALITO	Accused.  Not indicted.  He resigned the firm.  Divorced nineteen seventy.  Galvin worked with Michael Morrissey until Morrissey retired in 'seventy-eight.  Since then he's been on his own.  Four cases before the Circuit Court.  He lost them all.  He drinks.
BISHOP	Four cases in three years ...
ALITO	The man's an ambulance chaser ...
BISHOP	... tell me about this case.
ALITO	This is a nuisance suit.  He's looking for small change.  He's asking for six hundred thousand and betting we don't want to go to court.
BISHOP	No -- we don't want this case in court.
ALITO	Neither does he.  That's where he loses.  This man's scared to death to go to court.  We only have to call his bluff.
BISHOP	I want to settle this thing and be done with it.  I don't want the Archdiocese exposed.
ALITO	No.  Absolutely, and we're going to see that it is not.
BISHOP	So what I want to do is stop it here.  I'm going to make him an offer.  I want to do it myself.  I want it to come from me.
ALITO	All right.  But let's keep the price down.  I've called Ed Concannon.  He recommends that we continue to respond as if we're going to trial.

BISHOP	If we were to go to trial, would we win the case?
ALITO	Well, of course, it's always dangerous ...
BISHOP	I know that answer.  If we went to trial would we win?
ALITO	Yes.

BISHOP	It's a generous offer, Mr. Galvin... ...nothing can make the woman well...but we try to compensate...to make a gesture...
GALVIN	How did you settle on the amount?
BISHOP	We thought it was just.
GALVIN	You thought it was just.
BISHOP	Yes.
GALVIN	Because it struck me how neatly 'three' went into the amount.  Two Hundred Ten Thousand.  That would mean I keep seventy.
BISHOP	That was our insurance company's recommendation.
GALVIN	Yes.  It would be.

BISHOP	Nothing that we can do can make that woman well.
GALVIN	And no one will know the truth.
BISHOP	What is the truth?
GALVIN	That that poor girl put her trust in the hands of two men who took her life, she's in a coma, her life is gone.  She has no family, she has no home, she's tied to a machine, she has no friends --and the people who should care for her:  her Doctors, and you, and me, have been bought off to look the other way.  We have been paid to look the other way.  I came in here to take your money.   I brought snapshots to show you. So I could get your money.   I can't take it.  If I take it. If I take that money I'm lost. I'm just going to be a rich ambulance chaser.    I can't do it. I can't take it.

GALVIN	What are you doing here?
CLAIRE	Mickey told me to come back to work.

CLAIRE	... here's your mail, call Mrs. Doneghy ...
GALVIN	... yes.  Get her on the phone ...
CLAIRE	... that was a Dr. David Gruber's office ...
GALVIN	Gruber...
CLAIRE	Mickey told him to call.  'He's some very hotshot surgeon at Mass. Commonwealth.  He wants to meet with you at seven tonight re testimony in the case of Deborah Ann Kaye.  You meet him at the hospital.'

GALVIN	... he wants to testify ...?
CLAIRE	It looks that way.
GALVIN	You know what that would mean?  To get somebody from a Boston hospital to say he'll testify?
CLAIRE	... a Mrs. Doneghy called ... I told you that.

GALVIN	This is going to drive the ante up.
CLAIRE	Frank Galvin's ... who's calling please?  Bishop Brophy's office ...

GALVIN	That's the call that I'm waiting for.
CLAIRE	What does it mean?
GALVIN	They want to settle.    It means a lot of money.
CLAIRE	Does that mean I'm back for awhile?

DR. TOWLER	No, actually, she was referred to me.  She was Dr. Hagman's patient...
CONCANNON	Don't equivocate.  Be positive. Just tell the truth.

CONCANNON	Whatever the `truth' is, let's hear that.  You were her doctor.
DR. TOWLER	Yes.
CONCANNON	Say it.
DR. TOWLER	I was her doctor.
CONCANNON	You were the anesthesiologist at her delivery May twelfth, nineteen seventy...
DR. TOWLER	...I was one of a group of...
CONCANNON	Answer affirmatively.  Simply. Keep those answers to three words. You weren't `part of a group,' you were her anesthesiologist.  Isn't that right?
DR. TOWLER	Yes.
CONCANNON	You were there to help Dr. Marx deliver her baby.  Were you not?
DR. TOWLER	Yes.

CONCANNON	Anything special about the case?
DR. TOWLER	When she...

DR. TOWLER	Thank you.  When Debby...
CONCANNON	Dr. Towler, who was in the operating room with you?
DR. TOWLER	Ms. Nevins, nurse-anesthetist; Dr.Marx, of course...

DR. TOWLER	Mary Rooney, the obstetrical nurse...
CONCANNON	What did these people do when her heart stopped?
DR. TOWLER	We went to Code Blue...
CONCANNON	`Code Blue,' what does that mean...?
DR. TOWLER	It's a common medical expression, it's a crash program to restore the heartbeat.  Dr. Marx cut an airway in her trachea, to get her oxygen, her and the baby...Ms.Nevins...
CONCANNON	Why wasn't she getting oxygen...?
DR. TOWLER	Well, many reasons, actually...
CONCANNON	Tell me one?
DR. TOWLER	She'd aspirated vomitus into her mask...
CONCANNON	She THREW UP IN HER MASK.  Let's cut the bullshit.  Say it:  She THREW UP IN HER MASK.

CONCANNON	...and her heart stopped and she wasn't getting oxygen.
DR. TOWLER	That's right.
CONCANNON	And what did your team do...
DR. TOWLER	Well, we...
CONCANNON	...You brought thirty years of medical experience to bear.  Isn't that what you did?
DR. TOWLER	Yes.
CONCANNON	...A patient riddled with complications, questionable information on her, on her admitting form...
DR. TOWLER	...We did everything we could...
CONCANNON	...to save her and to save the baby.  Is that...
DR. TOWLER	Yes!
CONCANNON	You reached down into death.  Now, isn't that right?
DR. TOWLER	My God, we tried to save her...You can't know...You can't know...
CONCANNON	Tell us.

CONCANNON	Ed Concannon.
GALVIN	Frank Galvin.  We've met before.

CONCANNON	Objection, we've...
GALVIN	...to get her heartbeat back...?
CONCANNON	We've touched on this, his own witness has said...
GALVIN	...almost nine minutes...  causing brain damage.
CONCANNON	Your Honor...!  Your Honor...

GALVIN	Objection!
CONCANNON	And you would come here, and on a slip of memory four years ago, you'd ruin their lives.

CONCANNON	Dr. Thompson, just so the Jury knows, you never treated Deborah Ann Kaye.  Is that correct?
DR. THOMPSON	That is correct.  I was engaged to render an opinion.
CONCANNON	Engaged to render an opinion.  For a price.  Is that correct?  You're being paid to be here today?
DR. THOMPSON	Just as you are, Sir...
CONCANNON	Are you board-certified in anesthesiology, Doctor?
DR. THOMPSON	No, I am not.  It's quite common in New York State...
CONCANNON	...I'm sure it is, but this is Massachusetts, Doctor.  Certified in Internal Medicine?
DR. THOMPSON	No.
CONCANNON	Neurology?
DR. THOMPSON	No.
CONCANNON	Orthopedics?
DR. THOMPSON	I'm just an M.D.
CONCANNON	Do you know Dr. Robert Towler...?
DR. THOMPSON	I know of him.
CONCANNON	How is that?
DR. THOMPSON	Through, through his book.
CONCANNON	What book is that?
DR. THOMPSON	Meth...Methodology and Technique...
CONCANNON	...of Anesthesiology?
DR. THOMPSON	`Methodology and Techniques of Anesthesiology.'  Yes.
CONCANNON	How old are you?
DR. THOMPSON	I am seventy-four years old.
CONCANNON	Uh-huh.  Still practice a lot of medicine?
DR. THOMPSON	I'm on the staff of...
CONCANNON	Yes, we've heard that.  Doctor: you testify quite a bit against other physicians?  Isn't that right? You, you're available for that? When you're paid to be there?
DR. THOMPSON	Sir.  Yes.  When a thing is wrong...as in this case, I am available.  I am seventy-four years old, I am not board-certified.  I have been practicing medicine for forty-six years and I know when an injustice has been done.
CONCANNON	Do you, indeed.  I'll bet you do. Fine.  Fine.  We'll save the court the time.  We will admit the Doctor as an `expert witness,' fine.

DR. THOMPSON	I did.
CONCANNON	Objection.

CONCANNON	Your Honor, Bishop Brophy and the Archdiocese have offered plaintiff two hundred and ten thousand dollars.
JUDGE	Huh!
CONCANNON	My doctors didn't want a settlement at any price.  They wanted this cleared up in court.  They want their vindication.  I agree with them.  But for today the offer stands.  Before we begin the publicity of a trial.  For today only.    When I  walk out that door the offer is withdrawn.  As long as you understand that.  It's got to be that way.

JUDGE	Mr. Concannon...?
CONCANNON	Nothing further, your Honor.
JUDGE	Mr. Galvin, rebuttal?

CONCANNON	Objection!  This is ri...expect us to accept a photocopy, we have the original right...
JUDGE	I'll rule on that presently.   Proceed.

CONCANNON	No further questions.
JUDGE	You may step down.

CONCANNON	Thank you, your Honor.  We object to the copy of the admissions form as incompetemt and essentially hearsay evidence and cite McGee versus State of Indiana, U.S. 131 point 2 and 216 through 25 of the Uniform Code:  'The admission of a duplicate document in preference to an existing original must presuppose the possibility of alteration and so must be disallowed.'  And, your Honor, having given the Plaintiff the leeway we would like your ruling on this issue now:  we object to the admission of the Xerox form.
JUDGE	...one moment, Mr. Concannon...

JUDGE	The document is disallowed, the jury will be advised not to consider the testimony of Kathy Costello regarding the Xerox form.    It's unsubstantiated and we  can't accept a copy in preference to the original...
CONCANNON	Thank you, your Honor.  Further: Ms. Costello is a rebuttal witness. As a `Surprise Witness' she may only serve to rebut direct testimony.  As her only evidentiary rebuttal was the admitting form, which has been disallowed I request that her entire testimony be disallowed and the jury advised that they must totally disregard her appearance here.
JUDGE	I'm going to uphold that.

CONCANNON	You are aware of the penalties for perjury...?
KATHY	It's a crime.
CONCANNON	Yes.    It is a crime.  A serious crime.
KATHY	I wouldn't do it.
CONCANNON	You would not...?
KATHY	No.
CONCANNON	In fact, you've just taken an oath that you would not commit perjury. You've just sworn to that.  Isn't that right?
KATHY	Yes.
CONCANNON	Just now...
KATHY	Yes.
CONCANNON	...sworn before God you would tell the truth?
KATHY	Yes.
CONCANNON	Now.  I'd like to ask you something: four years ago, when you were working as a nurse, are you aware that Drs. Towler and Marx based their treatment of Deborah Ann Kaye on this chart that you signed . . . ?
KATHY	I . . ..
CONCANNON	And wasn't that an oath...?  These are your initials here:  K.C. When you signed this chart you took an oath.  No less important than that which you took today.   Isn't that right?   Isn't that right...?
KATHY	I...yes.
CONCANNON	Then, please, which is correct? You've sworn today the patient ate one hour ago.  Four years ago you swore she ate nine hours ago? Which is the lie.  When were you lying?
KATHY	I...
CONCANNON	You know these doctors could have settled out of court.  They wanted a trial.  They wanted to clear their names.

KATHY	They lied.
CONCANNON	`They lied.'  Indeed!  When did they lie?  And do you know what a lie is?
KATHY	I do.  Yes.
CONCANNON	You swore on this form that the patient ate nine hours ago.
KATHY	That's not my handwriting.
CONCANNON	You've just said you signed it.
KATHY	Yes, I, yes, I signed it, yes. But I, I didn't write that figure.
CONCANNON	You didn't write that figure.  And how is it that you remember that so clearly after four years?
KATHY	Because I kept a copy.  I have it right here.

CONCANNON	...what in the world would induce you to make a photocopy of some obscure record and hold it fouryears?  This is a...why?  Why would you do that?
KATHY	I thought I would need it.
CONCANNON	And why, please tell us, would you think that?
KATHY	After, after the operation, when that poor girl, she went in a coma. Dr. Towler called me in.  He told me he had five difficult deliveries in a row and he was tired, and he never looked at the admittance form.    And he told me to change the form.  He told me to change the one to a nine.   Or else, or else, he said...  He said he'd fire me.  He said I'd never work again....Who were these men...? Who were these men...?  I wanted to be  a nurse...

GALVIN	Please sit down.  I told your wife. I'm sorry that we have to meet out here.  I've got a case coming in two days in the  Superior Court and my office is a mess of papers.
DONEGHY	... that's all right.
GALVIN	I was telling your wife, we have a very good case here.

DONEGHY	...the Archdiocese called up, they said who was our attorney, 'cause the case is coming to trial...
GALVIN	I doubt we'll have to go to trial ...
DONEGHY	... we told them we didn't want it to come out this way.
GALVIN	I completely understand ...
DONEGHY	We just ...

DONEGHY	What is this going to cost?
GALVIN	It's completely done on a contingency basis.  That means whatever the settlement is I retain one-third ...that is, of course, the usual arrangement ...

DONEGHY	You said you're gonna call me up. You didn't call me up.  Who do you think you are?    Who do you think you are...?
GALVIN	Hold on a second.
DONEGHY	I'm going to have you disbarred. I'm going to have your ticket. You know what you did?  Do you know what you did?

GALVIN	It's all right, Mickey.
DONEGHY	You ruined my life, Mister...Me and my wife...and I am going to ruin yours...  You don't have to go out there to see that girl.  We been going four years.    Four years...my wife's been crying herself to sleep what they, what, what they did to her sister.
GALVIN	I swear to you I wouldn't have turned the offer down unless I thought that I could win the case...
DONEGHY	What you thought!?  What you thought...I'm a workingman, I'm trying to get my wife out of town, we hired you, we're paying you, I got to find out from the other side they offered two hundred...
GALVIN	I'm going to win this case...Mist...Mr. Doneghy...I'm going to the Jury with a solid case, a famous doctor as an expert witness, and I'm going to win eight hundred thousand dollars.
DONEGHY	You guys, you guys, you're all the same.  The Doctors at the hospital, you...it's 'What I'm going to do for you'; but you screw up it's `We did the best that we could. I'm dreadfully sorry...'  And people like me live with your mistakes the rest of our lives.

GALVIN	If I could accept the offer right now, I would.  They took it back.
DONEGHY	I understand.    I went to the Bar Association.  They tell me you're going to be disbarred.

DR. THOMPSON	They gave her the wrong anesthetic.
MICKEY	Why is that?
DR. THOMPSON	Her sister said she ate one hour prior to admittance...she...
MICKEY	...that's what the sister said. The chart said she ate nine hours prior to...
DR. THOMPSON	...she went in complaining of stomach cramps.  Good doctor would have doubted the information on the chart.
MICKEY	Is that what a good doctor would do?  How old are you, please?
DR. THOMPSON	I am seventy-four years old.
MICKEY	What qualifies you as an expert in anesthetics?
DR. THOMPSON	I am on the staff of...
MICKEY	Easthampton Hospital for Women. Excuse me, what is that, a joke? Let me tell you something, Doctor, those men at Catherine Laboure. Men who are known not only in this city, but the world, were trying to save a woman's life.  They were there, and here you are, four years later, read some hospital report, and say...
DR. THOMPSON	...I made a detailed physical examination of the patient, Sir, yesterday evening, I...

MICKEY	She getting good care over there?
DR. THOMPSON	Actually, yes.  It's by no means bad, I...
MICKEY	Then what good would it do to ruin the reputation of two men, to help a girl whose life's not going to be changed in the least?   You know what CODE BLUE means?
DR. THOMPSON	'Code Blue'...
MICKEY	It's a common medical term.

JUDGE	Are you saying that a failure to restore the heartbeat within nine minutes in itself constitutes bad medical practice?
DR. THOMPSON	Well...

DR. THOMPSON	I...in that small context I would have...I would have to say 'no.'
JUDGE	Then you're saying there's no negligence, based on my question?
DR. THOMPSON	I...given the limits of your question, that's correct.
JUDGE	The Doctors were not negligent.
DR. THOMPSON	I...um...

GALVIN	Dr. Thompson...?
DR. THOMPSON	It was good of you to meet...

GALVIN	I have some errands to run, and then I thought we'd spend the evening...
DR. THOMPSON	That's what I'd planned to...
GALVIN	I'm going to take you to the home to see the girl...
DR. THOMPSON	From what I've seen, Mr. Galvin, you have a very good case...
GALVIN	Yes.  Yes.  I think so.  I hope you'll be comfortable.  I'm putting you up at my...
DR. THOMPSON	...I made a reservation at...
GALVIN	...apartment.   No, no. Please.  You don't know who we're dealing with, I, please believe me, they...
DR. THOMPSON	...What difference would...
GALVIN	These people play very rough. They don't want to lose this case. There's a lot of pressure they can bring to bear, I...
DR. THOMPSON	There's nothing they can do to me.

GALVIN	Dr. Thompson.  From your review of the hospital records of May twelfth nineteen seventy-six.  In your opinion, what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye?
DR. THOMPSON	Cardiac arrest.  During delivery her heart stopped.  When the heart stops the brain's deprived of oxygen.  You get brain damage. That is why she's in the state she's in today.
GALVIN	Now, Dr. Towler's testified that they restored the heartbeat within three or four minutes.  In your opinion is his estimate correct?
DR. THOMPSON	It's my opinion it took him much longer.  Nine...ten minutes. There's too much brain damage.

DR. THOMPSON	I didn't do too well for you.
GALVIN	No, you did fine.
DR. THOMPSON	I'm afraid that's not true.   Will you want me to stay on till Monday?
GALVIN	No.  No thank you, Doctor.  You go home.
DR. THOMPSON	You know...sometimes people can surprise you.  Sometimes they have a great capacity to hear the truth.
GALVIN	Yes...I...yes.

DR. THOMPSON	You sure you don't want me to stay on.
GALVIN	No.  No.  Thank you. You go home.

GALVIN	Dr. Towler; page 406, 'Contraindications to general anaesthetic.  Ideally a  patient should refrain from taking nourishment up to nine hours prior to induction of general anaesthetic.'  Does that sound familiar?
DR. TOWLER	Yes.  I wrote it.

GALVIN	'Practice and Methodology in Anaesthesia.'  General textbook on the subject.  Is  that correct?
DR. TOWLER	I.  Yes.  It is.
GALVIN	And you wrote that...
DR. TOWLER	Yes.
GALVIN	...Page 414, 'If a patient has taken nourishment within one hour prior to inducement, general anaesthetic should be avoided at all costs because of the grave risk the patient will aspirate food particles into his mask.'  Is that what happened to Deborah  Ann Kaye?  She aspirated into her mask?
DR. TOWLER	She threw up in her mask, yes. But she hadn't eaten one hour prior to admission.
GALVIN	If she had eaten, say one hour prior to admission, the inducement of a general anaesthetic...the type you gave her... would have been negligent...?
DR. TOWLER	Negligent.  Yes...it would have been criminal.  But that was not the case.
GALVIN	Thank you.

GALVIN	Dr. Gruber ...
GRUBER	Yes?  Galvin, right?

GALVIN	I appreciate--a man as busy as--
GRUBER	That's perfectly all right.  I'm kind of rushed.  Do you mind if we walk while we talk?

GRUBER	I read the hospital report on your client.
GALVIN	... Deborah Ann Kaye ...
GRUBER	... Deborah Ann Kaye ...

GALVIN	They called, they're going to settle, what I want to do is build up as much ...
GRUBER	Right.  Who called?
GALVIN	The Archdiocese called, they want to settle ... her estate ...
GRUBER	... and you're going to do that?
GALVIN	Yes.
GRUBER	You're going to settle out of court?

GALVIN	Yes.
GRUBER	Why?

GALVIN	Uh ... in the, well, in the interests of her family ... you, Dr. Gruber, you know, you can never tell what a jury is going to do. St. Catherine's a very well thought of institution.  Her doctors ...
GRUBER	Her doctors killed her.
GALVIN	) I'm sorry ...?
GRUBER	Her doctors murdered her.  They gave her the wrong anaesthetic and they put her in the hospital for life.    Her doctors murdered her.
GALVIN	Do you know who her doctors were?
GRUBER	I read the file.  Yeah.  Marx and Towler.  I know who they were.
GALVIN	The most respected ...
GRUBER	Whose side are you arguing ...?  I thought that you wanted to do something.  I don't have any interest in the woman's 'estate' -- No offense, but we all know where the money's going  to ... I have an interest in the Hospital;  and I don't want those bozos working in the same shop as me.  They gave her the wrong anesthetic.  They turned the girl into a vegetable. They killed her and they killed her kid.  You caught 'em.  Now: how many others did they kill?

GALVIN	The hospital is owned by the Archdioceses of ...
GRUBER	What are they going to do?  Not invite me to their Birthday party ...?   Look, I gotta go.  I have to be in Cambridge ...

GALVIN	Well, well, when can we meet again. I'd like to get a deposition..
GRUBER	Okay.  I'll meet you here.  Tuesday night ... I gotta go.  You going my way?

GALVIN	We have to ... we ... we have to keep you under wraps.  Please don't, don't discuss ...
GRUBER	I understand.
GALVIN	... the case with anyone.  And I'll meet you Tuesday, and we'll go over your testimony ...

GALVIN	Thank you ...
GRUBER	... that's perfectly all right.
GALVIN	Uh, why, why are you doing this?
GRUBER	To do right.  Isn't that why you're doing it?

GALVIN	I'm Joe Galvin, I'm representing Deborah Ann Kaye, case against St. Catherine Laboure.
MARY ROONEY	I told the guy I didn't want to talk to...
GALVIN	I'll just take a minute.  Deborah Ann Kaye.  You know what I'm talking about.  The case is going to trial. Our chief witness is a Dr. David Gruber, you know who he is?
MARY ROONEY	No.
GALVIN	He's the Assistant Chief of Anesthesiology, Massachusetts Commonwealth.  He says your doctors, Towler and Marx, put my girl in the hospital for life.  And we can prove that.  What we don't know is why.  What went on in there?  In the O.R.  That's what we'd like to know.  Something went wrong.  And you know what it was.  They gave her the wrong anesthetic.  What happened?  The phone rang...someone got distracted...what?
MARY ROONEY	...you got your doctor's testimony. Why do you need me?
GALVIN	I want someone who was in the O.R. We're going to win the case, there's no  question of that.  It's just a matter of how big...
MARY ROONEY	I've got nothing to say to you.
GALVIN	You know what happened.
MARY ROONEY	Nothing happened.
GALVIN	Then why aren't you testifying for their side?

GALVIN	I can subpoena you, you know.  I can get you up there on the stand.
MARY ROONEY	And ask me what?
GALVIN	Who put my client in the hospital for life.
MARY ROONEY	I didn't do it, Mister.
GALVIN	Who are you protecting, then?
MARY ROONEY	Who says that I'm protecting anyone?
GALVIN	I do.  Who is it?  The Doctors. What do you owe them?
MARY ROONEY	I don't owe them a goddamn thing.
GALVIN	Then why don't you testify?
MARY ROONEY	You know, you're pushy, fella...
GALVIN	You think I'm pushy now, wait 'til I get you on the stand...
MARY ROONEY	Well, maybe you better do that, then.   You know you guys are all the same. You don't care who gets hurt. You're a bunch of whores.  You'd do anything for a dollar.  You got no loyalty...no nothing...you're a bunch of whores.

GALVIN	Yessir.  I'm sorry.
JUDGE	Why is that?
GALVIN	I was held up.

JUDGE	Now, have you boys tried to resolve your little difficulty because that certainly would save the Commonwealth a lot of time and bother.
GALVIN	This is a complicated case, your Honor...
JUDGE	I'm sure it is, Frank:  and let me tell you something.  If we find it so complex, how in the hell you think you're going to make a jury understand it?   See my point?  Let's talk a minute. Frank: what will you and your client take right now this very minute to walk out of here and let this damn thing drop?
GALVIN	My client can't walk, your Honor.
JUDGE	I know full well she can't, Frank. You see the Padre on your way out and he'll punch your ticket.  You follow me?  I'm trying to help you.

JUDGE	That's it...?    Come on, guys...life is too short...  You tell me if you're playing 'chicken,' or you mean it.    Frank:  I don't think I'm talking out of school, but I just heard someone offer you two hundred grand...and that's a lot of money...and if I may say, you haven't got the best of records.
GALVIN	...things change.
JUDGE	...that's true.  Sometimes they change, sometimes they don't. Now, I remember back to when you were disbarred...
GALVIN	I wasn't disbarred, they dropped the pro...
JUDGE	And it seems to me, a fella's trying to come back, he'd take this settlement, and get a record for himself.    I myself would take it and run like a thief.
GALVIN	I'm sure you would.

JUDGE	What is it?
GALVIN	Thank you for seeing me.
JUDGE	That's perfectly all right.

GALVIN	I need an extension for my case.
JUDGE	You should have taken their offer. Especially if you were unprepared.
GALVIN	I had a witness disappear on me.
JUDGE	That happens.
GALVIN	I could subpoena him if I had a week.
JUDGE	I don't have a week.  This case never should have come to trial. You know better.  You're Mr. Independent.  You want to be independent?  Be independent now. I've got no sympathy for you.

JUDGE	Is the Plaintiff ready?
GALVIN	Ready, your Honor.
JUDGE	Defense...?

JUDGE	Do we have time this morning to... All right.  Mr. Galvin, you want to continue now, or we can resume with Dr. Thompson this afternoon.
GALVIN	Thank you, your Honor, I'll continue.  Dr. Thompson.  Did you examine Deborah Ann Kaye last night at The Northern Chronic Care Facility?

JUDGE	Sustained.  Yes.  The witness will confine his testimony to review of the hospital records.
GALVIN	What?
JUDGE	I believe that's the law...is it not, Mr. Galvin...?

JUDGE	Yes, Mr. Galvin?
GALVIN	If I may be permitted to question my own witness in my own way...
JUDGE	I'd just like to get to the point, Mr. Galvin.  Let's not waste these people's time.  Answer the question, Mr. Witness.  Please.  Would a nine-minute lapse in restoring the heartbeat in and of itself be negligence?

JUDGE	I got a letter from the Judge Advocate's office on you today, fella, you're on your way out...They should have kicked you out on that Lillibridge case.  Now this is it today.
GALVIN	I'm an attorney on trial before the bar.  Representing my client. My client, do you understand?  You open your mouth and you're losing my case for me.
JUDGE	Listen to me, fella...
GALVIN	No, no, you listen to me.  All I wanted in this case is an even shake.  You rushed me into court in five days...my star witness disappears, I can't get a continuance, and I don't give a damn.  I'm going up there and I'm going to try it.  Let the Jury decide.  They told me Sweeney he's a hard-ass, he's a defendant's judge.  I don't care.  I said, the hell with it.  The hell with it. I'll take my chances he'll be fair.

JUDGE	Galvin, look, many years ago...
GALVIN	And don't give me this shit, 'I was a lawyer, too.'  'Cause I know who you were.  You couldn't hack it as a lawyer. You were Bag Man for the Boys and you still are.  I know who you are.
JUDGE	Are you done?
GALVIN	Damn right I'm done.  I'm going to ask for a mistrial and I'm going to request that you disqualify yourself from sitting on this case. I'm going to take a transcript to the State and ask that they impeach your ass.
JUDGE	You aren't going to get a mistrial, boy.  We're going back this afternoon, we're going to try this case to an end.  Now you get out of here before I call the Bailiff and have you thrown in jail.

GALVIN	Nothing further, your Honor...
JUDGE	Mr. Concannon...?

GALVIN	I object, your Honor...
JUDGE	Overruled...
GALVIN	Exception!
JUDGE	Noted.  Thank you.   Miss Costello was a rebuttal witness.  Her sole rebuttal was the document,  which has been disallowed...

VOICE	Continental Casualty...
GALVIN	Mr. Alito, please.
VOICE	Business hours are over, Sir. This is the switch...
GALVIN	I have to reach him.  This is an emergency.  Could you give me his home number?
VOICE	I'm sorry, Sir, we're not allowed...
GALVIN	...Would you, would you call him up.  I'll give you my number, and ask him...
VOICE	I can't guarantee that...
GALVIN	I understand.  Thank you, my name is Galvin.  I'll be at the following number in a half an hour.  It's urgent.

VOICE	Mr. Galvin's...
GALVIN	Let me talk to Mickey.

GALVIN	Hello, I'm calling from...
VOICE	If you're selling something, I'm late for work...
GALVIN	I'm calling from Professional Nurse Quarterly...
VOICE	From the magazine?
GALVIN	This is Mr. Wallace in Subscriptions?
VOICE	How come you're calling me from...?
GALVIN	This is Miss Costello...?
VOICE	Yes.  Price...
GALVIN	Pardon?
VOICE	Kathy Price.
GALVIN	We find that your subscription lapsed...
VOICE	My subscription lapsed three years ago...
GALVIN	That's why I'm calling, Miss Price...
VOICE	Missus...
GALVIN	We have a renew-your-subscription offer...
VOICE	We get it at work.  We get the magazine at work.
GALVIN	Yes, we know that you do.  I have it in my files.  That's at the Manhattan Health Center...
VOICE	No.  At Chelsea Childcare.  Okay. Look, call me Monday, hey?  I'm late for work.

GALVIN	D'you find an apartment?
LAURA	Still looking.
GALVIN	I changed my life today.  What did you do?
LAURA	I changed my room at the Hotel.
GALVIN	Why?
LAURA	The TV didn't work.
GALVIN	What Hotel are you staying at?
LAURA	And what are you?  A cop?
GALVIN	I'm a lawyer.
LAURA	My ex-husband was a lawyer.
GALVIN	Really.  How wonderful for you.
LAURA	Yes.  It was, actually.
GALVIN	Oh, actually it was.  Then why'd you call it off?
LAURA	Who says I'm the one that called it off?
GALVIN	A brick house says you divorced him.  I'll put you on your honor. Bet you a hundred dollars against you join me for dinner.  And I'll take your word for it.  Now you tell me the truth.  Because you cannot lie to me.  What's your name?
LAURA	Laura.
GALVIN	My name's Frank.  And furthermore, you came back to see me tonight.
LAURA	What if it wasn't you that I came back to see?
GALVIN	You just got lucky.   D'you eat yet?  Come on.

GALVIN	The weak, the weak have got to have somebody to fight for them. Isn't that the truth?  You want another drink?
LAURA	I think I will.

GALVIN	Jimmy!  That's why the court exists.  The court doesn't exist to give them justice, eh?  But to give them a chance at justice.
LAURA	And are they going to get it?
GALVIN	They might.  Yes.  That's the point ...is that they might...you see, the jury wants to believe.  They're all cynics, sure, because they want to believe.  I have to go in there tomorrow to find twelve people to hear this case.   I'm going to see a hundred people and pick twelve.  And every one of them it's written on their face, `This is a sham.  There is no justice...' but in their heart they're saying, 'Maybe...maybe...'
LAURA	Maybe what?
GALVIN	Maybe I can do something right.
LAURA	And is that what you're going to do?    Is that what you're going to do...?
GALVIN	That's what I'm going to try to do.

LAURA	Would you like me to leave...?   Is this a bad time --?
GALVIN	What...?
LAURA	Is this a bad time.
GALVIN	We, we...No...we just had a small reversal in the case... I have some, uh...I have some work to do...
LAURA	What happened...?
GALVIN	They, uh, they got to my witness.
LAURA	...and is that serious?

GALVIN	I've got to work...
LAURA	Do you want me to go...?
GALVIN	No, no, I'm just...

LAURA	Why don't you get some rest?
GALVIN	I've got to work.
LAURA	You can't work if you can't think. You get in bed.  It's all right. I'll stay here with you.  It's all right.  Come on...
GALVIN	You're going to stay here...?
LAURA	Yes.

GALVIN	Do you think it's my fault?
LAURA	Isn't there something you...
GALVIN	That's not the question.  It's over.  Do you think that it's my fault?  If I'd...if I'd...I never should have taken it.  There was no way that I was going to win.
LAURA	You're talking like a drunk.
GALVIN	That's what I am.

LAURA	And it's over...?
GALVIN	Yes.
LAURA	Well, then what are you doing here?
GALVIN	I...do you want me to leave?
LAURA	You do what you want.  You want to leave...You want to go kill yourself?
GALVIN	I...
LAURA	You want me to tell you it's your fault?  It probably is.  What are you going to do about it?   I thought it's not over till the jury comes in.
GALVIN	Who told you that?
LAURA	You told me so.  Maybe you'd get some sympathy.  You came to the wrong place.
GALVIN	And what makes you so tough?
LAURA	Maybe I'll tell you later.
GALVIN	Is there going to be a later...?
LAURA	Not if you don't grow up...
GALVIN	If I don't 'grow up...'
LAURA	You're like a kid, you're coming in here like it's Saturday night, you want me to say that you've got a fever -- you don't have to go to school...
GALVIN	You, you don't under...
LAURA	Oh, yes, I do, Joe.  Believe me. You say you're going to lose.  Is it my fault?  Listen!  The damned case doesn't start until tomorrow and already it's over for you!
GALVIN	It's over!
LAURA	What is your wife's picture doing by the side of your...
GALVIN	What is that to you...?
LAURA	What would you like it to be to me...?  I, I, I can't invest in failure.

LAURA	Joe...  Joe...
GALVIN	Stop pressuring me...

LAURA	You're pressuring yourself...
GALVIN	No...no...
LAURA	Yes.   We've all got to let go.

LAURA	Is it over?
GALVIN	No.
LAURA	What are you going to do?
GALVIN	I don't have a goddamned idea.

GALVIN	Thank you.
LAURA	I have to talk to you.
GALVIN	Call the A.M.A.  to Laura) ...I can't talk now.  ...tell them you're Dr. Somebody...you have to find this nurse...

GALVIN	Dr. Gruber.
MAID	Dr. Gruber's not in.
GALVIN	I had an appointment at his office, I think I must have got it wrong. We had a meeting...
MAID	He's not in, Sir.
GALVIN	Where is he?

GALVIN	I...please.  My wife...my wife's prescription has run out.  If I can call him...
MAID	Dr. Halpern's taking all his...
GALVIN	No, no, no.  I have to talk to him.  If I can only call him..
MAID	He's...you can't reach him, Sir. He's in the, on some island in the Caribbean, they don't have a phone.   He'll be back in a week...  If you'd like Dr. Halpern's number...

GALVIN	Hi, Mickey ...
MICKEY	What the hell do you think you're doing ...?  What's going on here ...?
GALVIN	Uh ...
MICKEY	Fuck you.  I got a call today from Sally Doneghy ...
GALVIN	... now who is that ...?
MICKEY	... You're 'sposed to be in court in ten days and she's telling me you haven't even met with them ...
GALVIN	Sally Doneghy, now who is that?
MICKEY	One lousy letter eighteen months ago. . . .I try to throw a fuckin' case your way ...
GALVIN	... hey, I don't need your charity ...
MICKEY	... I get these people to trust you --they're coming here tomorrow by the way --I get this expert doctor to talk to you.  I'm doing all your fuckin' legwork -- and it's eighteen months.  You're 'sposed to be in court.  I bet you haven't even seen the file.

GALVIN	I have to talk to you.
MICKEY	What do you want?
GALVIN	Come on.  Let's get a drink.
MICKEY	Don't touch anything.

MICKEY	Are you out of your mind...?
GALVIN	...I'm going to need your help...
MICKEY	You need my help...?  You need a goddamn keeper...are you telling me that you turned down two-hundred- ten grand?    Huh...?  Are you nuts?  Eh?  Are you nuts. What are you going to do, bring her back to life?
GALVIN	I'm going to help her.
MICKEY	To do what...?  To do what, for chrissake...?   To help her to do what?  She's dead...
GALVIN	They killed her.  And they're trying to buy it...
MICKEY	That's the point, you stupid fuck. Let them buy it.  We let them buy the case.  That's what I took it for.  You let this drop -- we'll go up to New Hampshire, kill some fuckin' deer...

GALVIN	Mick.  Mick.  Mick...
MICKEY	What?
GALVIN	You -- Listen:  you said to me, `if not now, when...'
MICKEY	I know what I said but not now. You won it.  Franky.  You won it. When they give you the money, that means that you won.  We don't want to go to court -- is this getting to you...?  You know who the attorney is for the Archdiocese, Eddie Concannon.
GALVIN	...he's a good man...
MICKEY	...he's a good man...?  He's the Prince of Fuckin' Darkness...he'll have people in there testifying that the broad is well -- they saw her Tuesday on a surfboard at Hyannis...don't fuck with this case.
GALVIN	...I have to stand up for her...
MICKEY	Frank, but not now.  Frank.  You're trying to wipe out some old business.  But not now.  I understand.  But you go call 'em back.  You call the Bishop back.
GALVIN	I have to try this case.  I have to do it, Mick.  I've got to stand up for that girl.  I need your help.    Mick, will you help me...?    Will you help me...?

GALVIN	We've got her sister.  Testifies she had a meal one hour before she was admitted to the hospital. This is the point.
MICKEY	You got the admittance form says patient ate nine hours prior to admittance.
GALVIN	Admittance form is wrong.
MICKEY	Forget it.  You can't prove it. Sister's testimony is no good. Jury knows we win she gets the cash.
GALVIN	I've got my Dr. Gruber, says her heart condition means they gave her the wrong anaesthetic anyway, plus she came in complaining of stomach pains...
MICKEY	...Gruber's not bad.GALVIN Not bad...?  This guy's Dr. Kildare, the jury's going to love him, Mick...  And you calm down, all right?  Their guy, Towler's, the author of the book,  'Methodology and Practice, Anesthesiology.'  ...and they got depositions from the nurses, everybody in the operating room, the scrub-nurse...'All these guys are God.  I saw them walk on water...'
GALVIN	They had an obstetrical nurse in there.  We got a deposition from the obstetrical nurse?
MICKEY	No.
GALVIN	'Mary Rooney, forty-nine.  Lives in Arlington, still working at the hospital.'  Can you get out tomorrow?  How come she isn't speaking up.
MICKEY	Right.
GALVIN	Okay now.  Cases:  Smith versus State of Michigan.
MICKEY	Right.
GALVIN	Brindisi versus Electric Boat.
MICKEY	You got a good memory, Franky.
GALVIN	I had a good teacher.  McLean versus Urban Transport...

GALVIN	Jimmy?  Bushmills.   Lookit, do me a favor.  I'll buy you a drink tomorrow.
MICKEY	Yeah?  And what are you going to do tonight?
GALVIN	I'm going to get laid.

MICKEY	Been a long time, huh...?
GALVIN	I'm getting it back.  Don't worry about me, Mick.  I'm fine.  D'you find the obstetric nurse?
MICKEY	Mary Rooney.  She won't talk to me.  I tried her at the hospital. I'm going to try her back at home. Read this.

GALVIN	So what?
MICKEY	So what...?  The best is yet to come.  Check the TV Guide.  They got our Dr. Towler on a panel on GBH on Friday: 'The Healing Hand. The Experts Speak.'
GALVIN	They still have to take it to a jury.

MICKEY	What I'm saying, they're getting some help.
GALVIN	So what do you want me to do? Concannon's going to try the case his way, I'm going to try it mine. You want me to go wee wee wee all the time because he's got some flack, got stories in the newspaper. I'm going to win this case.

MICKEY	John:  gimme a cuesta-ray.
GALVIN	Oh shit, what's today?
MICKEY	Today is Tuesday.  What?
GALVIN	I've got to go see Gruber.    What's the best cigars you have?
MICKEY	Give 'em a box of Macanudos.
GALVIN	Mickey:  I'm supposed to meet somebody at O'Rourke's, I can't make it.

MICKEY	What happened, Joey...?
GALVIN	I can't talk now.
MICKEY	D'you meet with Dr. Gruber...?

MICKEY	Yeah?  How's our new witness?
GALVIN	D'you find the obstetric nurse?
MICKEY	She's workin' the late shift at the Hospital.  She's at home now, I'm going over there to talk to...
GALVIN	Gimme the address.  I'm gonna go. We're going to need her.

MICKEY	How are you holding up?
GALVIN	I'm swell.
MICKEY	And all we've got is a witch doctor!
GALVIN	Yeah.

GALVIN	Okay.  What do you do when you don't have a witness?
MICKEY	You use their witness.
GALVIN	That's right.
MICKEY	I think we tried that.  The case is over.

GALVIN	Are you with me...are you awake...?
MICKEY	Yeah.  I'm awake.
GALVIN	Rooney's protecting someone.  Who is she protecting?
MICKEY	The Doctors.
GALVIN	She's protecting the Doctors she'd be up there on the stand...
MICKEY	Read me what she said.

GALVIN	`You guys are a bunch of whores...uh...loyalty...you don't care who gets hurt...you don't have any loyalty...'
MICKEY	...one of the other nurses?
GALVIN	Who?  They're all testifying. Everybody who was in the O.R.'s going to take the stand.
MICKEY	All right.  Who wasn't in the O.R.?
GALVIN	What difference can that make...? All right...

GALVIN	Uh...the admitting nurse...
MICKEY	What did she do?
GALVIN	She didn't do anything.  She took the patient's history and signed the charts.  'K.C.'  'Kathy Costello...'
MICKEY	The 'History'...?
GALVIN	How old are you, how many children ... when did you last eat ...

GALVIN	We don't have anything from the Nurse Association?
MICKEY	The broad has disappeared...
GALVIN	The Hospital...?

MICKEY	...yeah...good...
GALVIN	...you need some old forms that she had...somebody's dying...

MICKEY	...four years ago...
GALVIN	Hello.  This is Mr. Dorchester in Records.  We're looking for Kathy Costello...
MICKEY	I need a cigarette!  She left my office four years ago, we're looking for a chart...  I need a cigarette...

GALVIN	What the hell are you doing here?
MICKEY	We got to talk.

GALVIN	What are you doing in New York...?
MICKEY	Come on, we'll get a cup of coffee...

MICKEY	I talked to Johnnie White at the Bar Association.   The broad used to work for one of Concannon's partners in New York awhile ago.   She wanted to move to Boston.    How badly did she hurt us, Joe?
GALVIN	I don't know.

MICKEY	We got a mistrial, you know.  Joe -- did you hear what I said...?
GALVIN	I don't want a mistrial.

GALVIN	I'm ... Mrs. Doneghy?  I'm Frank Galvin ... why didn't you go in?
SALLY	It's locked.
GALVIN	It's locked?

GALVIN	It's not a good case.  It's a very good case.  A healthy young woman goes into the hospital to deliver her third child, she's given the wrong anaesthetic ...
SALLY	... we, we love her, Dick and me ...
GALVIN	... I'm sure you do ...
SALLY	But what can we do?  She don't know who's visiting her ...
GALVIN	... I know.  I went ...
SALLY	... You saw her?
GALVIN	Yes.  Yes, I have.
SALLY	You know how beautiful she was?   Her husband left her, and he took her kids .... They, they, they'd let you die in there.  They don't care.  Nobody cares.  The Patriot Home, the Chronic Care ... in Arlington ...?  They'd take her in.  Perpetual care.  They'd take her.  Fifty thousand dollars they want.  An endowment.
GALVIN	... fifty thousand dollars?
SALLY	I don't want to leave her.  Dick ...the, the ... and Father Laughlin, he said that it was God's will ...
GALVIN	... I understand ...
SALLY	My doctor told me that I got to move out West ... that's when we filed in court.  We didn't want to sue ...
GALVIN	... I understand ...
SALLY	... But Dick, he's looking for two years in Tucson ... and they called him  up and said to come out. He's a good man.  He's only trying to do what's right.

SALLY	He saw her at the Northern Care...
GALVIN	... and I have inquiries out to doctors, experts in the field ... there is, of course, a problem getting a doctor to testify that another doctor's negligent ...

SALLY	We just can't do it anymore.   This is our chance to get away.
GALVIN	I'm going to see you get that chance.

SALLY	What does it mean?    I...I mean we, you have other tactics...
GALVIN	We, yes.  Yes.  They, they present their side, and I get the same chance.  To cross-examine... to... to...
SALLY	Are we going to win?    We have, you know, other tactics, though...
GALVIN	Yes.

GALVIN	I spoke to her, and everything is all right.
ROONEY	I, what are you talking about?  I talked to her this morning, and she said...
GALVIN	She told me.
ROONEY	She did?
GALVIN	I just saw her.
ROONEY	In New York?
GALVIN	What?
ROONEY	You saw Kat in New York...   ...or is she in town? Is she in town...?

KATHY	Hi.
GALVIN	Hi.  How are you doing?

GALVIN	I've been meaning to come in a long time.
KATHY	You live in the neighborhood?
GALVIN	Uh-huh.  My nephew's going to be staying with us in a few months, so I stopped by.
KATHY	How old is he?
GALVIN	Four.  You're great with these kids.

KATHY	Thank you.
GALVIN	You're really...  You, are you the one they told me was the nurse?
KATHY	Who told you that?
GALVIN	Mrs...
KATHY	Mrs. Simmonds.
GALVIN	Yes.
KATHY	I used to be a nurse.
GALVIN	That's a wonderful profession.  My daughter-in-law's a nurse.  What did you do, stop?

GALVIN	Kathy Price...
KATHY	Yes...
GALVIN	You were the Admitting Nurse at St. Catherine Laboure Hospital on May twelfth, nineteen seventy-six, the night Deborah Ann Kaye was admitted...
KATHY	Yes.

KATHY	Yes.
GALVIN	These are your initials, 'K.C.'?
KATHY	Kathy Costello.  That's my maiden name.

GALVIN	D'you ask the patient when did she last eat?
KATHY	Yes.
GALVIN	What did she say?
KATHY	She said she had a full meal one hour before coming to the hospital.
GALVIN	One hour.
KATHY	Yes.
GALVIN	And did you write the numeral `one' down on the record, standing for one hour?
KATHY	I did.
GALVIN	A single hour.
KATHY	Yes.

JIMMY	Another, Frank . . . ?
GALVIN	...everybody.  Mike says, `Pat, you mean to tell me for a buck you get a free lunch and a beer, and then you go in the back and get laid?'  `That's correct.'  Mike says, `Pat.  Have you been in this bar ?'  Pat says, `No, but my sister has ...'   Everyone.  Buy yourself one too.

GALVIN	I want to buy you a drink.
JIMMY	Thanks, Franky.

GALVIN	Well, well, well.  Huh?
JIMMY	Yeah.
GALVIN	It's a long road that has no turning.
JIMMY	That's for sure, Frank.

GALVIN	Dr. Towler...
TOWLER	Yes.
GALVIN	You have a record of what happened in the operating room...
TOWLER	Yes, that's correct.
GALVIN	...there are notations every thirty seconds...
TOWLER	Yes.
GALVIN	...of the procedures...
TOWLER	Yes, the roving nurse...
GALVIN	But those notations stop...  ...four-and-one-half minutes after Deborah Ann Kaye's...
TOWLER	We, we were rather busy...
GALVIN	Four-and-one-half minutes after her heart stopped.    And they resume seven minutes...
TOWLER	As I've said we had some more...
GALVIN	...they start again three minutes earlier...
TOWLER	We had rather more important things on our mind than taking notes.   We were trying to restore her...
GALVIN	What happened in those three...
TOWLER	...we were trying to restore her heartbeat.
GALVIN	What happened in those three minutes...?
TOWLER	We'd gone to 'Code Blue,' we were administering electro...
GALVIN	Why did it take that long to get her heartbeat...

TOWLER	Brain damage could have been...it didn't necessarily take nine minutes, it could have been caused in two...
GALVIN	Wait, wait, wait, you're saying that her brain damage could have been caused by her being deprived of oxygen for two minutes...?
TOWLER	Yes.
GALVIN	Huh.  And why is that?
TOWLER	Because she was anemic.  It's right there on her chart. Her brain was getting less oxygen anyway...

MICKEY	Franky can't make it.  He had an appointment he forgot, he's going to see you later.  I'm Mickey Morrissey, we're supposed to get to know each other.
LAURA	How'm I doing so far?
MICKEY	So far you're great.  You got a cigarette?

MICKEY	Stearns, Harrington, you know who that is?
LAURA	Should I?
MICKEY	A huge law firm.  Okay?  They put him in the firm, he's married, everything's superb.  Franky, he's starting to talk like he comes from Dorsetshire, some fuckin' place, 'You must drop by with Pat and me...'  Okay...?
LAURA	Yes.
MICKEY	...and he's making a billion dollars every minute working for Stearns, Harrington, and he bought a dog, and everything is rosy.   Then Mr. Stearns, he tried to fix a case.
LAURA	The Big Boy did...?
MICKEY	That Frank was working on.  Yeah. He thought Franky needed some help, so they bribed a juror.  So Franky finds out.  He comes to me in tears. He thinks that anybody who knows what a 'spinnaker' is got to be a saint.  I told him ' Franky, wake up.  These people are sharks. What do you think they got so rich from?  Doing good?'  He can't be comforted.  He tells the boys at Stearns and Harrington they've disappointed him, he's going to the Judge to rat them out.
LAURA	Huh.
MICKEY	Before he can get there here comes this Federal Marshal, and Franky's indicted for Jury tampering, they throw him in jail, he's gonna be disbarred, his life is over.   Jimmy, gimme another drink.    How are you?
LAURA	Me, too.
MICKEY	Okay.  Now, so he's in jail.  He, finally, he gets to see the light, he calls up Harrington, he says he thinks he made a mistake.  As if by magic, charges against him are dropped, he's released from jail.   P.S.  He's fired from the firm, his wife divorces him, he turns to drink  and mopes around three and a half years.   You like that story?

DEZERAE	Which do you think is her best shot...
CARTER	The one on the left - definitely...
DEZERAE	Don't give me shit - what do you want?

CARTER	I've got a tenant coming over later - can I take the afternoon off?
DEZERAE	As long as you get the HACKSAW piece done by FRIDAY... FRIDAY?

CARTER	That's not technically accurate - SIMPSONS murders weren't sexually motivated.
DEZERAE	You know that circulation is down for three months in a row.
CARTER	I heard something like that
DEZERAE	Then it's going to be 'I killed for sex'... Listen darling, why won't you let us use your real name for the features - if people knew that it was the ELLEN CARTER writing the features and not just some pseudonym - then we might shift more units. You haven't written anything in four years darling - I know you need this job - and if circulation keeps dropping, there's not going to be a magazine for you to write for...

DEZERAE	OH MY GAWD!
CARTER	I'm sorry - I didn't think
DEZERAE	A person could get killed round here just for working late

CARTER	I thought you were someone else
DEZERAE	Well I'm glad I'm not them - what are you doing here so late? Come to that, what the hell have you got that for?

CARTER	I thought someone was following me - I - er -  I just needed my computer and some things...Listen, I'd like to work from home for a few weeks - is that OK?
DEZERAE	Why don't you take a few weeks off - you're due some holiday time.

CARTER	Sounds good - thank you
DEZERAE	Don't mention it - now can I get back to my accounts, or do you want to fillet me?

CARTER	You see, I am writing this article for CHIC MAGAZINE
MANAGER	CHIC MAGAZINE?
CARTER	Yes - it's about bank safety deposit boxes - I wonder if you might just explain how they work - and maybe even show me round.

CARTER	When could I look round?
MANAGER	Well, if you could come sometime just before we close, then I could show you everything and  then we could go for a drink to discuss the finer points...

CARTER	That's very kind of you MR GRIFFITHS...?
MANAGER	BRIAN...
CARTER	But - If you could show me round now - and I'll meet you later?

CARTER	Its cramped in here isn't it BRIAN
MANAGER	Yes it is...
CARTER	Tell me BRIAN, what would happen if the client lost the key?
MANAGER	Then we would have to call in our locksmith to break the lock
CARTER	So there is only one key...
MANAGER	That's right...
CARTER	And it can't be forged?
MANAGER	I didn't say that - I'm sure it could be, but our clients must sign in first, checking signatures, and a photo ident - we had a nasty theft two years ago and we've been very strict since then.

CARTER	Yes, I'm sure you could - but I can't risk you loosing your job
MANAGER	No -it's no problem - I do it all the time
CARTER	All the time?
MANAGER	No - not all the time - I mean
CARTER	I know what you mean - I'll meet you at VINNIES WINE BAR at six if you like. And don't make any plans for this evening...

MANAGER	Hello MRS STECKLER - we haven't seen you for a long time
CARTER	No - I've been abroad for a long time...

MANAGER	I shouldn't say this - but you really remind me of someone I know
CARTER	Oh really - you must remember me from when I was a regular customer.
MANAGER	I wasn't a manager here then MRS STECKLER - don't you remember?
CARTER	I'm terribly sorry - I have a bad memory...

MANAGER	This must be one of the old keys -
CARTER	Yes - I have had it for years.

STECKLER	It doesn't mention 'females only'
CARTER	I really don't know what to say

STECKLER	Oh - Tell me ELLEN, I can call you ELLEN?
CARTER	Sure...
STECKLER	Tell me - ELLEN CARTER  Forgive me for being so pushy, but aren't you a novelist? Didn't you write that terrific book - 'The Color of Fear'?

CARTER	I lost the touch
STECKLER	The touch?

CARTER	Do you take sugar?
STECKLER	Yes, two please. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to pry, it's just that I really loved your book

CARTER	What are you doing?
STECKLER	I'm sorry?
CARTER	What's with all the locks - and hammering
STECKLER	It says in the contract I can have a lock fitted - is there a problem ANGELA?

CARTER	My names isn't ANGELA...
STECKLER	Yes - I'm sorry ELLEN...
CARTER	Don't worry - Is that my hammer  Well Just make sure that it's put back in the garage...

STECKLER	If you want any - there's some left in the kitchen
CARTER	I think I will pass...

CARTER	Sugar?
STECKLER	Yes, one and a half please.

CARTER	So what do you do?
STECKLER	I'm a dentist
CARTER	And how long have you been a dentist?

STECKLER	Oh, about six years since I graduated
CARTER	And how many people have you killed?
STECKLER	I don't know
CARTER	You don't know?
STECKLER	No - the police say I've killed fourteen - but I've not - I've killed many more. It amazes me how they just haven't found the bodies. What is society coming to when people just don't get missed. I agree, some of them are well hidden - I probably couldn't even show you where I put them - one girl, number eight I think the press called it - she wasn't even mine - I don't know who did it but I didn't
CARTER	Where do you kill them...
STECKLER	Oh anywhere - whenever I needed to - Do you know how easy it is to take them? You just pick up a hiker, or someone off the streets - they believe so easily you know, 'Look, I have something to show you' I would say - and that would be it. One girl, I think her name is Debbie - she had broken down on the motorway, and I offered to take her to a service station to call for a tow truck - She just got in and I drove away. When I pulled into the layby and took out my knife - she just froze, and said - what do you want? - I said, You know what I want. - But she didn't. Getting rid of the bodies is just as easy - the first I cut up, put in bags with bricks in, and tossed them off Eldridge Bridge in broad daylight.  The real problem with my work is the blood - there is so much of it - and it all spurts out so fast - like a fountain. It made such a mess of
STECKLER	my car  I stopped working from my car.  She could have stopped me you know - If she really wanted too. That is the difference between the confusion of humanity and the purity of the beast - If a dog attacked you - you could easily kill it without any damage to yourself - Why then do people get bitten by dogs - savaged? Why?
CARTER	I don't know
STECKLER	Because a dog will attack with a ferocity and force that we poses, but centuries of social contamination has run it out of us - that is what sets us aside from the purity of the beasts...Society is rotting - men who once were strong and kept everything working are getting soft - women are making them soft - by the time a pretty girl has reached twenty - she has had three lifetimes worth of fun and attention- so she doesn't deserve any more -
CARTER	Didn't DEBBIE deserve anymore?
STECKLER	No she didn't...
CARTER	What did you do with her?
STECKLER	You know everyone accuses me of being sick - the press, the TV - but I'm not you know - they are - I don't watch it for entertainment every night - I don't sit and watch it whilst eating my dinner - they all say, how could he cut her up? She was dead - I can't hurt something dead - And all this whilst they slobber down their processed beef burgers by the dozen - I couldn't eat one of those burgers, you don't know what has gone in them! 

CARTER	The press think that the WHITE ANGEL is a woman - why is that? Do you dress up LESLIE?
STECKLER	I don't want to talk about it -
CARTER	OK, the press call you the WHITE ANGLE because you only kill girls wearing white - why white - white clothes, blonde hair...
STECKLER	I don't know...
CARTER	Is 'their' colour an expression of their inner self? By that I mean, extroverts wear bright colours - so what are people who wear white?
STECKLER	I don't know...
CARTER	Is white an expression of innocence? Do you crave innocence LESLIE?
STECKLER	Let me ask you, why do you wear black ELLEN CARTER? What are you running from?

CARTER	Do you feel sorry for the girls you have killed
STECKLER	Why should I feel sorry - they're dead.

CARTER	How long have you been watching me?
STECKLER	I have something I have to show you...

CARTER	Tell me about your wife...
STECKLER	My wife  My wife was the only one who really deserved it.  LESLIE do this. LESLIE do that. LESLIE it's your fault... She used to tell me what to wear, where to go, what to do - she mothered me...
CARTER	then why did you marry her -
STECKLER	It seemed like a good idea at the time - why did you marry your husband.

CARTER	What didn't you like about her?
STECKLER	I hated being treated like a failure - looked down on - my sister used to do that - I hated it - I should have known, when we got married - in a registry office of course - she wore maroon - I just wanted a white wedding  I think she thought I was a ticket to the good life. I had a good job, prospects. And she was a slut - I didn't know until too late. One day, I came

STECKLER	You are the first person I have ever told any of this to. We are birds of a feather ELLEN...we're in the same league
CARTER	I don't think so...This isn't a game you know...There aren't points or leagues. Sure I killed my husband - but I am no killer.
STECKLER	You've killed but you're not a killer
CARTER	That's right...Don't ever think that you and I are the same - we're not even remotely similar. I did what I had to do for myself, for my own self preservation - not to live out some bizarre role playing fantasy. My husband was sick -

STECKLER	Tell me how it happened...
CARTER	Why should I?
STECKLER	Why not? Please - it would help me

STECKLER	And how did it feel to be rid of him
CARTER	Wonderful - like a great release - He was a malignant cancer and I had to remove him - the world is better without him

STECKLER	My mother...?  I never knew my real MOTHER - I was adopted
CARTER	Tell me about your adopted MOTHER

STECKLER	You think I killed my MOTHER don't you?
CARTER	Did you?

STECKLER	No...I didn't do it...I wish I had but I didn't. I was beaten to it. STEPHANIE became my mother.
CARTER	STEPHANIE?
STECKLER	My sister - My ADOPTED SISTER -
CARTER	Did STEPHANIE kill your MOTHER?
STECKLER	STEPHANIE loved me - she got some insurance money and took legal custody of me - she was just old enough. We had a ball for years - we could do anything, anywhere, anyhow...And we did...We would play games - she would be the executioner and I would be the convict - She would strap me into the arm chair and pretend to electrocute me...

CARTER	What was your relationship with STEPHANIE?
STECKLER	It was wrong - all my life I have been cheated - cheated of anything good - I shouldn't have been born - I was a mistake - my natural mother was a whore - that makes me...

STECKLER	I want it to stop - it all to stop...
CARTER	Then make it stop...

CARTER	What?
STECKLER	I know this sounds insane ELLEN, but... Telling you all of this, writing the book... It feels good. Don't get me wrong - I feel like a weight is being lifted from my shoulders... When I tell you what I have done - I can't believe it is me...Yet I know it was. This is like a purging for me...
CARTER	Psychiatrists would say that you are confronting your demons
STECKLER	Demons... This wouldn't have been possible without you... You have given me incentive ELLEN - I can see clearer now...

STECKLER	What's wrong?
CARTER	Nothing could be better...

CARTER	What's wrong?
STECKLER	I am ashamed of what I have done ELLEN. When I read what you had written it made me think - look into myself - I haven't dared look into myself for a long time - I have stopped ELLEN, I can't carry on - I won't carry on. All I want is to start a new life - I want a second chance...You are good to me - you don't condescend, you're intelligent, and very beautiful...

CARTER	What is it?
STECKLER	Open it...

STECKLER	Yes...
CARTER	You want me to wear white for you? You must be madder than I thought...
STECKLER	But ELLEN, I told you I have stopped...
CARTER	But for how long - what will set you off again? You'll be walking down the street and some girl will be wearing a white hat - and that will be it - back on the merry go round...

CARTER	Where are you going?
STECKLER	Out - I may be some time

STECKLER	We've got nothing to talk about
CARTER	LESLIE I'm sorry - I - I didn't know what to think

STECKLER	I thought we had a relationship built on trust - and you just slap me in the face...
CARTER	I am sorry...

CARTER	LESLIE?  Is that good enough?
STECKLER	Yes - I suppose so...

STECKLER	ELLEN, would you like a cup - there's plenty in the pot
CARTER	No thanks - 

STECKLER	First finish your tea...
CARTER	He doesn't need to...

CARTER	Why did you let him in?
STECKLER	What was I supposed to do?

CARTER	I don't like sugar
STECKLER	There isn't that much - you didn't even taste it - What's wrong - don't you like my tea?
CARTER	It's not that - I just don't want any sugar
STECKLER	Why whats wrong with the sugar -

CARTER	I haven't been using it recently LESLIE
STECKLER	CRAP! - I wish I had taken a photo of your face when I gave some to that DETECTIVE - What's wrong ELLEN - you look pale - maybe you have been eating the wrong kind of foods lately - it could be food poisoning?

STECKLER	whats wrong...what have I done wrong?
CARTER	Nothing LESLIE - I just think we should wait...
STECKLER	WAIT FOR WHAT!?

STECKLER	I don't want either of us to come to any harm - please...
CARTER	You killed my friend!

STECKLER	I loved you ELLEN - why did you do this?
CARTER	It's what you would do to me

CARTER	Don't you want me now LESLIE
STECKLER	No - I'll have you after

MIK	I'm sorry, I couldn't - when is she due?
CARTER	At 2.00...

CARTER	Well, what do you think?
MIK	I don't know - it's your house ELLEN
CARTER	Yes - but you live here too - If it were your house?
MIK	I think he's fine - I don't know why you have this thing about men - it would be nice to have a guy in the house for a change - I don't think he would hurt a fly.

MIK	What's wrong with you?
CARTER	I would prefer it if you kept away from LESLIE
MIK	What?
CARTER	You heard me - keep away from him

MIK	You don't own him you know - you can't tell me not to see him!
CARTER	Yes I can...

CARTER	I want you out now
MIK	Leave!? Who the hell do you think you are?
CARTER	I'm your landlady

MIK	What happened?
CARTER	I had an accident - I fell down stairs...
MIK	Is LESLIE here?
CARTER	No he had to - he's just - he's out...
MIK	He saved my life you know - has he told you...

TAYLOR	It's been what, three years?
CARTER	What's this all about?
TAYLOR	So have you seen hubby recently ELLEN?

CARTER	What brings the rats out of the sewers?
TAYLOR	I'm here about the so called disappearance of your husband - It's best if we let old bones lie. Know what I mean?  I'm working on the WHITE ANGEL case now - and I've got to check all known murderers or suspected murderers for the last five years... And that means you...So where were you last THURSDAY afternoon around five...
CARTER	You think I'm the WHITE ANGEL?

TAYLOR	It did give me a chance to meet you again ELLEN - It's all routine you understand...So where were you?
CARTER	At home alone - where were you?
TAYLOR	As it happens, I was at home alone - maybe we could solve each others problems?
CARTER	Get out...

TAYLOR	I'd watch her mate - she has thing for men - they disappear near her.
CARTER	I think you had better leave

STECKLER	I'm really very sorry - I was banking on this coming through, because it's only five minutes from my surgery...
MIK	Surgery? Are you a doctor?
STECKLER	No - a dentist

STECKLER	Just put it in my room
MIK	No worries

STECKLER	I'm sorry, I didn't mean to shout...
MIK	Don't worry about it -

MIK	You're a novelist - why didn't you tell me?
STECKLER	And not just any novelist - a great novelist - it was an impressive piece of work ELLEN...

MIK	Her husband left her
STECKLER	Oh...

STECKLER	I thought it was you - how are you?
MIK	I'm good - I was just making a delivery near here, so I thought I would see if you were about...
STECKLER	Yes, come on in...

STECKLER	That's good
MIK	I'd really like it if you would come round some time - Then I could cook you a meal - what do you say...
STECKLER	Yes, that would be nice - I'll call round some time...

MIK	Good - I've got to dash -  Say that I said hello to ELLEN for me would you...
STECKLER	Yes - of course.

TAYLOR	Dr STECKLER?
STECKLER	Yes...?
TAYLOR	INSPECTOR DAVE TAYLOR - Scotland yard ...Can I have a word?

TAYLOR	Dead?
STECKLER	Or was it, she wished he was dead - that's it - I believe he left the country with another woman - all rather sordid.
TAYLOR	So she didn't mention anything more about it?
STECKLER	No - she isn't in any trouble is she?
TAYLOR	Oh no sir - just making some enquiries...Just tell her that INSPECTOR TAYLOR called on you - she'll understand
STECKLER	I'll be sure to...

STECKLER	I shouldn't really - I'm not your surgeon...
TAYLOR	Who said anything about surgery...It'll only take a moment.

STECKLER	Sugar?
TAYLOR	Yes - one please.

TAYLOR	ANGEL...
STECKLER	Yes, sorry - He's here to make sure that you are alright

